It was six o'clock in the morning of last Thursday (Christmas morning), when Nathan Stoddard, a young saddler, strode through the vacant streets of one of our New England towns, hastening to begin his work. The town is an old-fashioned one, and although the observance of the ancient church festival is no longer frowned upon, as in years past, yet it has been little regarded, especially in the church of which Nathan is a member. As the saddler mounted the steps of his shop, he felt the blood so rush along his limbs, and tingle in his fingers, that he could not forbear standing without the door for a moment, as if to enjoy the triumph of the warmth within him over the cold morning air. The little stone church which Nathan attends stands in the same square with his shop, and nearly opposite. It was closed, as usual on Christmas day, and a recent snow had heaped the steps and roof, and loaded the windows. Nathan thought that it looked uncommonly beautiful in the softening twilight of the morning.

While Nathan stood musing, with his eyes fixed upon the church, he became suddenly conscious that another figure had entered the square upon the opposite side, and was walking hastily along. He turned his eyes upon it, and was greatly surprised by its appearance. He saw a tall old man, although a good deal stooping, with long, straight, and very white hair falling over his shoulders, which was the more conspicuous from the black velvet cap, as it appeared, that he wore, and the close-fitting suit of pure black in which he was dressed, and which seemed to Nathan almost to glisten and flash as the old man tripped along. He had hardly begun to speculate as to who the stranger could be, when he beheld him turn in between the posts by the path that leads to the church, tread lightly over the snow, and up the steps, and knock hastily and vigorously at the church-door. But half recovered from his wonder, he was just raising his voice to utter a remonstrance, when, to his sevenfold amazement, the door was opened to the knock, and the old man disappeared within.

It was not without a creeping feeling of awe, mingled with his astonishment, that Nathan gazed upon the door through which this silent figure had vanished. But he was not easily to be daunted. He did not care to follow the steps of the stranger into the church; but he remembered a shed so placed against the building, near the farther end, that he had often, when a child, at some peril indeed, climbed upon its top, and looked into the church through a little window at one side of the pulpit. For this he started; but he did not fail to run across the square and leap over the church-gate at the top of his speed, in order to gather warmth and courage for the attempt.

When Nathan Stoddard climbed upon the old shed and pressed his face against the glass of the little church-window, he had at first only a confused impression of many lamps and many figures in all parts of the church. But as his vision grew more clear, he beheld a sight which could not amaze him less than the apparition that startled Tam o' Shanter as he glared through the darkness into the old Kirk of Alloway. The great chandelier of the church was partly lighted, and there were, besides, many candles and lanterns burning in different parts of the room, and casting their light upon a large party of young men and women, who were dressed in breeches and ruffled shirts, and hooped petticoats and towering head-dresses, such as he had only seen in old pictures. They were mounted upon benches and ladders, and boards laid along the tops of the pews, and were apparently just completing the decoration of the church, which was already dressed with green, with little trees in the corners, and with green letters upon the walls, and great wreaths about the pillars. The whole party appeared full of life and cheerfulness, while the old man whom Nathan had seen enter stood near the door, looking quietly on, with a little girl holding his hand.

It was not until Nathan Stoddard had looked for some little time upon this spectacle that he began to feel that he was witness of any thing more than natural. The whole party had so home-like an air, and appeared so engaged with their pleasant occupation, that, notwithstanding their quaint dress, Nathan only thought how much he should like to share their company. But the more he studied their faces, the more he was filled, for all their appearance of youth and their simple manners, with a strange sort of veneration. The sweet and cheerful faces of the young women seemed to grow awfully calm and beautiful as they brought their task to a close, and their foreheads, with the hair brought back in the old-fashioned way, to become more and more serene and high. There was a strange beauty, too, about the old man's face. He appeared to Nathan as if he felt that the group before him only waited his command to fade away in the morning light that struggled among the candles, but he could not bear to give the word; and so they kept playing with the festoons, and stepping about the pews to please him. Nathan felt a cold thrill, partly from pleasure, and partly from awe, running up his back, and a strong pain across his forehead, seldom known to one of his temperament. Again and again he drew his hand across his brows, until he felt that he was near swooning, and like to fall; and he clung desperately to his hold. When the fit was over, he dared venture no more, but hastened to the ground.

It was no fear of ridicule or of incredulity that led Nathan Stoddard to keep secret what he had witnessed. But it was like some deep and holy experience that would lose its charm if it were spoken of to another. So he went back to his shop, and sat looking upon the church, and watching, almost with dread, the doves that lighted upon its roof, and fluttered about, and beat their wings against its windows.

The minister of Nathan's parish was a young man by the name of Dudley; and it so happened that he had driven out, before light, on the morning we have spoken of, to visit a sick man at some distance. In returning home, he had to pass along the rather unfrequented street which runs in the rear of his church, and close to it. As he was driving rapidly along, his ear caught what seemed the peal of an organ. He stopped his horse to listen, and a moment convinced him that the sound both of the instrument and of singing voices came from his own church; and it was music of a depth and beauty such as he had never before heard within it. Filled with astonishment, he put his horse upon its fastest trot, and drove round into the square, to the shop of Nathan Stoddard.

"There is music to-day in our church, Nathan!" he cried to the young saddler. "What can it mean?" But Nathan answered not a word. He caught the horse by the head, and fastened him to a post before the door. Then stepping to the side of the sleigh, he said to Mr. Dudley, "Come with me, Sir." Mr. Dudley looked upon the pale face and trembling lips of his parishioner, and followed in silence.

Nathan sprang upon the shed at the side of the church, and scrambled up to the little window. Mr. Dudley followed, and, with Nathan's help, gained the same precarious foothold. "Look in, Sir," said Nathan, not venturing a glance himself. Mr. Dudley looked, and had not Nathan's arm been about his body he would have lost his hold, in sheer amazement. The building was crowded, as he had never known it before; and crowded with people whom his eye, versed in the dress and manners of our forefathers, recognized as the church-goers of a century and a half ago. The singers' gallery was filled by a choir of girls and boys, while his own place in the pulpit was occupied by a white-haired figure, whom he recognized as the original of a portrait which he had purchased and hung in his parlor at home for its singular beauty. It was said to be a portrait of a minister in the town, who lived in the last century, and is still remembered for his virtues. The sight of this old man's face completely stilled the agitation of the young minister. He was leaning over the great Bible, with his hands folded upon it, and his eyes seemingly filled with tears of pleasure and gratitude, and bent upon the choir. Mr. Dudley listened intently, and could catch what seemed the words of some old Christmas carol:

"Thou mak'st my cup of joy run o'er."
And he was so rapt with the sights and the sounds within, that it needed all Nathan's endeavors to uphold him.

By this time the sound of a gathering crowd below, which he had not heeded at first, was forced more and more upon his notice; and the anxious voice of his oldest deacon calling, "Mr. Dudley! Mr. Dudley!" rose high and loud; while a great thundering at the front door of the church announced that the people below had also caught the sound of the music, and were clamorous for admission. Mr. Dudley hastened round to prevent their causing any disturbance to the congregation within; but he came only in time to see the door burst open, and to be borne in with the crowd. All gazed about in wonder. The congregation, indeed, were gone, and the preacher, and the choir; and the room was cold. But there was a great green cross over the pulpit, and words along the walls, and festoons upon the galleries, and great wreaths, like vast green serpents, coiled about the cold pillars. The church of the Orthodox parish of —— had been fairly dressed for Christmas by spirit hands.

When Mr. Dudley reached his home, after the wonder had in part spent itself, he found that an enormous Christmas pie had been left at his door by a white-haired old man dressed in black, about six in the morning, just after he had gone to visit his sick parishioner. The girl who received it reported the old man as saying, in a tremulous, but very kind voice, "Give your master the Christmas blessing of an old Puritan minister." How the meaning of this message would have been known to Mr. Dudley, had not the events we have told disclosed it, who can say?

Need I add, that my friend, Mr. Dudley, from whose lips I have taken down the above narrative, has directed the decorations to remain in his church during the coming month, and that he avows the intention of observing the Christmas of the following year with public services, unless, indeed, he should be anticipated by his ancient predecessor. It may not be impertinent to observe, that I am invited to dine and spend the day with the Dudleys on that occasion, and I shall not fail to make an accurate report of whatever glimpse I may obtain into the mysterious ceremonies of a Puritan Christmas.

IN THE CHURCHYARD AT CAMBRIDGE.
A LEGEND OF LADY LEE.
In the village churchyard she lies, 
Dust is in her beautiful eyes, 
 No more she breathes, nor feels, nor stirs; 
At her feet and at her head 
Lies a slave to attend the dead, 
 But their dust is white as hers.
Was she, a lady of high degree, 
So much in love with the vanity 
 And foolish pomp of this world of ours? 
Or was it Christian charity, 
And lowliness and humility, 
 The richest and rarest of all dowers?
Who shall tell us? No one speaks; 
No color shoots into those cheeks, 
 Either of anger or of pride, 
At the rude question we have asked;— 
Nor will the mystery be unmasked 
 By those who are sleeping at her side.
Hereafter?—And do you think to look 
On the terrible pages of that Book 
 To find her failings, faults, and errors? 
Ah, you will then have other cares, 
In your own short-comings and despairs, 
 In your own secret sins and terrors!
                                             H.W.L.
THE LITTLE SOUTH-WIND.
The little south-wind had been shut up for many days, while his cousin from the northeast had been abroad, and the clouds had been heavy and dark; but now all was bright and clear, and the little south-wind was to have a holiday. O, how happy he would be! He sallied forth to amuse himself;—and hear what he did. He came whistling down the chimney, until the nervous old lady was ready to fly with vexation: then away he flew, laughing in triumph,—the naughty south-wind! He played with the maiden's work: away the pieces flew, some here, some there, and away ran the maiden after. What cared she for the wind? She tossed back her curls and laughed merrily, and the wind laughed merrily too,—the silly south-wind! Onward he stole, and lifting the curtain,—curious south-wind!—what did he see? On the sofa lay a young man: a heavy book was in his hand. The little south-wind rustled through the leaves, but the young man stirred not; he was asleep; hot and weary, he slept. The wind fanned his brow awhile, lifted his dark locks, and, leaving a kiss behind, stole out at the casement,—the gentle south-wind! Then he met a little child: away he whirled the little boy's hat, away ran the child, but his little feet were tired, and he wept,—poor child! The wind looked back, and felt sad, then hung the hat on a bush, and went on. He had played too hard,—the thoughtless south-wind! A sick child lay tossing to and fro: its hands and face were hot and dry. The mother raised the window. The wind heard her as he was creeping by, and stepping in, he cooled the burning face: then, playing among the flowers until their fragrance filled the room, away he flew,—the kind south-wind! He went out into the highway, and played with the dust; but that was not so pleasant, and onward he sped to the meadow. The dust could not follow on the green grass, and the little south-wind soon outstripped it, and onward and onward he sped, over mountain and valley, dancing among the flowers, and frolicking round, until the trees lifted up their arms and bent their heads and shook their sides with glee,—the happy south-wind! At last he came to a quiet dell, where a little brook lay, just stirring among his white pebbles. The wind said, "Kind brook, will you play with me?" And the brook answered with a sparkling smile, and a gentle murmur. Then the wind rose up, and, sporting among the dark pines, whistled and sung through the lofty branches, while the pretty brook danced along, and warbled songs to the music of its merry companion,—the merry south-wind! But the sun had gone down and the stars were peeping forth, and the day was done. The happy south-wind was still, and the moon looked down on the world below, and watched among the trees and hills, but all was still: the little south-wind slumbered, and the moon and the stars kept guard,—poor, tired south-wind! Old lady and maiden, young man and child, the dust and the flowers, were forgotten, and he slept,—dear little south-wind!

LINES
WRITTEN AT THE CLOSE OF DR. HOLMES'S LECTURES ON ENGLISH POETRY.
[Footnote: The Poets are metaphorically introduced as follows. Rogers, The Beech;— Campbell, The Fir;— Byron, The Oak;— Moore, The Elm;— Scott, The Chestnut;— Southey, The Holly;— Coleridge, The Magnolia;— Keats, The Orange;— Wordsworth, The Pine;— Tennyson, The Palm;— Felicia Hemans, The Locust;— Elizabeth Barrett Browning, The Laurel.]
Farewell! farewell! The hours we've stolen 
 From scenes of worldly strife and stir, 
To live with poets, and with thee, 
 Their brother and interpreter,
Have brought us wealth;—as thou hast reaped, 
 We have not followed thee in vain, 
But gathered, in one precious sheaf, 
 The pearly flower and golden grain.
For twelve bright hours, with thee we walked 
 Within a magic garden's bound, 
Where trees, whose birth owned various climes, 
 Beneath one sky were strangely found.
First in the group, an ancient Beech 
 His shapely arms abroad did fling, 
Wearing old Autumn's russet crown 
 Among the lively tints of Spring.
Those pale brown leaves the winds of March 
 Made vocal 'mid the silent trees, 
And spread their faint perfume abroad, 
 Like sad, yet pleasant memories.
Near it, the vigorous, noble Fir 
 Arose, with firm yet graceful mien; 
Welcome for shelter or for shade, 
 A pyramid of living green.
And from the tender, vernal spray 
 The sunny air such fragrance drew, 
As breathes from fields of strawberries wild, 
 All bathed in morning's freshest dew.
The Oak his branches richly green 
 Broad to the winds did wildly fling;— 
The first in beauty and in power, 
 All bowed before the forest-king.
But ere its brilliant leaves were sere, 
 Or scattered by the Autumn wind, 
Fierce lightnings struck its glories down, 
 And left a blasted trunk behind.
A youthful Elm its drooping boughs 
 In graceful beauty bent to earth, 
As if to touch, with reverent love, 
 The kindly soil that gave it birth;—
And round it, in such close embrace, 
 Sweet honeysuckles did entwine, 
We knew not if the south wind caught 
 Its odorous breath from tree or vine.
The Chestnut tall, with shining leaves 
 And yellow tassels covered o'er, 
The sunny Summer's golden pride, 
 And pledge of Autumn's ruddy store,—
Though grander forms might near it rise, 
 And sweeter blossoms scent the air,— 
Was still a favorite 'mongst the trees 
 That flourished in that garden fair.
All brightly clad in glossy green, 
 And scarlet berries gay to see, 
We welcome next a constant friend, 
 The brilliant, cheerful Holly-Tree.
But twilight falls upon the scene; 
 Rich odors fill the evening air; 
And, lighting up the dusky shades, 
 Gleam the Magnolia's blossoms fair.
The fire-fly, with its fairy lamp, 
 Flashes within its soft green bower; 
The humming sphinx flits in and out, 
 To sip the nectar of its flower.
Now the charmed air, more richly fraught, 
 To steep our senses in delight, 
Comes o'er us, as the Orange-Tree 
 In beauty beams upon our sight;
And, glancing through its emerald leaves, 
 White buds and golden fruits are seen; 
Fit flowers to deck the bride's pale brow, 
 Fit fruit to offer to a queen.
But let me rest beneath the Pine, 
 And listen to the low, sad tone 
Its music breathes, that o'er my soul 
 Comes like the ocean's solemn moan.
Erect it stands in graceful strength; 
 Its spire points upward to the sky; 
And nestled in its sheltering arms 
 The birds of heaven securely lie.
And though no gaily painted bells, 
 Nor odor-bearing urns, are there, 
When the west wind sighs through its boughs, 
 Let me inhale the balmy air!
The stately Palm in conscious pride 
 Lifts its tall column to the sky, 
While round it fragrant air-plants cling, 
 Deep-stained with every gorgeous dye.
Linger with me a moment, where 
 The Locust trembles in the breeze, 
In soft, transparent verdure drest, 
 Contrasting with the darker trees.
The humming-bird flies in among 
 Its boughs, with pure white clusters hung, 
And honey-bees come murmuring, where 
 Its perfume on the air is flung.
A noble Laurel meets our gaze, 
 Ere yet we leave these alleys green. 
'Mongst many stately, fair, and sweet, 
 The Daphne odora stands a queen.
May 2, 1853.

AUNT MOLLY.
A REMINISCENCE OF OLD CAMBRIDGE.
In looking back upon my early days, one of the images that rises most vividly to my mind's eye is that of Miss Molly ——, or Aunt Molly, as she was called by some of her little favorites, that is to say, about a dozen girls, and (not complimentary to the unfair sex, to be sure) one boy. There was one, who, even to Miss Molly, was not a torment and a plague; and I must confess he was a pleasant specimen of the genus. At the time of which I speak, the great awkward barn of a school-house on the Common, near the Appian Way, had not reared its imposing front. In its place, in the centre of a grass-plot that was one of the very first to look green in spring, and kept its verdure through the heats of July, stood the brown, one-storied cottage which she owned, and in which the aged woman lived, alone. Her garden and clothes-yard behind the house were fenced in; but in front, the visitor to the cottage, unimpeded by gate or fence, turned up the pretty green slope directly from the street to the lowly door.

As I have started for a walk into the old times, and am not bound by any rule to stick to the point, I will here digress to say that the Episcopal Church (the Church, as it was simply called, when all the rest were "meeting-houses"), that tells the traveller what a pure and true taste was once present in Cambridge, and, by the contrast it presents to the architectural blunders that abound in the place, tells also what a want of it there is now,—this beautiful church stood most appropriately and tastefully surrounded by the green turf, unbroken by stiff gravel walks or coach sweep, and undivided from the public walk by a fence. Behind the church, and forming a part of its own grounds, (where now exist the elegances of School Court,) was an unappropriated field; and that spot was considered, by a certain little group of children, of six or seven years old, the most solitary, gloomy, mysterious place in their little world. When the colors of sunset had died out in the west, and the stillness and shadow of twilight were coming on, they used to "snatch a fearful joy" in seeing one of their number (whose mother had kindly omitted the first lesson usually taught to little girls, to be afraid of every thing) perform the feat of going slowly around the church, alone, stopping behind it to count a hundred. Her wonderful courage in actually protecting the whole group from what they called a "flock of cows," and in staking and patting the "mad dogs" that they were for ever meeting, was nothing to this going round the church!

But to return to the cottage, from which the pretty, rural trait of its standing in its unfenced green door-yard led me away to notice the same sort of rustic beauty where the church stood. We did not stop to knock at the outside door,—for Aunt Molly was very deaf, and if we had knocked our little knuckles off she would not have heard us,—but went in, and, passing along the passage, rapped at the door of the "common room," half sitting-room, half kitchen, and were admitted. Those who saw her for the first time, whether children or grown people, were generally afraid of her; for her voice, unmodulated, of course, by the ear, was naturally harsh, strong, and high-toned; and the sort of half laugh, half growl, that she uttered when pleased, might have suggested to an imaginative child the howl of a wolf. She had very large features, and sharp, penetrating black eyes, shaded by long, gray lashes, and surmounted by thick, bushy, gray eyebrows. I think that when she was scolding the school-boys, with those eyes fiercely "glowering" at them from under the shaggy gray thatch, she must have appeared to those who in their learned page had got as far as the Furies, like a living illustration of classic lore. Her cap and the make of her dress were peculiar, and suggestive of those days before, and at the time of, the Revolution, of which she loved to speak.

But we, her little favorites, were not afraid of her. To go into her garden in summer, and eat currants, larger and sweeter than any we found at home,—to look up at the enormous old damson-tree, when it was white with blossoms, and the rich honey-comb smell was diffused over the whole garden,—was a pleasant little excursion to us. She took great care and pains to save the plums from the plundering boys, because it was the only real damson there was anywhere in the neighborhood, and she found a ready sale for them, for preserves. She seemed to think that the real damsons went out with the real gentry of the olden time; and perhaps they did, as damsons, though, for aught I know, they may figure now in our fruit catalogues as "The Duke of Argyle's New Seedling Acidulated Drop of Damascus,"—which would be something like a translation of Damson into the modern terminology.

But more pleasant still was it to go into Aunt Molly's "best room." The walls she had papered herself, with curious stripes and odd pieces, of various shapes and patterns, ornamented with a border of figures of little men and women joining hands, cut from paper of all colors; and they were adorned, besides, with several prints in shining black frames. There was no carpet on the snow-white, unpainted floor, but various mats and rugs, of all the kinds into which ingenuity has transformed woollen rags, were disposed about it. The bed was the pride and glory of the room, however; for on it was spread a silk patchwork quilt, made of pieces of the brocade and damask and elegant silks, of which the ladies belonging to the grand old Tory families had their gowns and cardinals, and other paraphernalia, made. Aunt Molly had been a mantuamaker to the old "quality," and she could show us a piece of Madam Vassall's gown on that wonderful and brilliant piece of work, the bed-quilt. "On that hint" she would speak.

"A-haw-awr! They were real gentle folks that lived in them days. A-haw-awr! I declare, I could e'en-amost kneel down and kiss the very airth they trod on, as they went by my house to church. Polite, they wor! Yes, they knew what true politeness was; and to my thinking true politeness is next to saving grace."

Once a year, or so, Aunt Molly would dress up in her best gown, a black silk, trimmed with real black lace, and a real lace cap, relics of the good old days of Toryism and brocade and the real gentry, and go to make an afternoon visit to one of her neighbors. After the usual salutations, the lady would ask her visitor to take off her bonnet and stay the afternoon, knowing by the "rig" that such was her intention. But she liked to be urged a little, so she would say, "O, I only came out for a little walk, it was so pleasant, and stopped in to see how little Henry did, since his sickness. You know I always call him my boy." (Yes, Aunt Molly, the only boy in the universe that, for you, had any good in him.) After the proper amount of urging, she would lay aside her bonnet and black satin mantle, saying, "Well, I didn't come here to get my tea, but you are so urgent, I believe I will stay."

Aunt Molly's asides were often amusing. She was so very deaf that she could not hear her own voice, and often imagined she was whispering, when she could be heard across the room.

On one occasion she saw a gentleman who was a stranger to her, in the parlor, when she went to visit one of the ladies who were kind and attentive to her. She sat a few minutes looking keenly at him, and then whispered, "Who's that?" "Mr. Jay." "Who?" "Mr. Jay." "Who?" "MR. JAY." "Oh-o-oh! Mr. Jay. Well, what does he do for a living?" "He's a tutor, Ma'am." "What?" "A tutor." "What?" "A TUTOR." "Oh-o-oh! I thought you said a suitor!"

Aunt Molly owned the little brown cottage, where her widowed mother, she said, had lived, and there she died. As soon as she was laid in her grave, it was torn down, and the precious damson-tree was felled. I was rather glad that the school-house was so ugly, that I might have a double reason for hating the usurper. If Nemesis cared for school-boys, she doubtless looks on with a grin, now, to see them scampering at their will round the precincts of the former enemy of their race, and listens with pleasure while they "make day hideous" where once the bee and the humming-bird only broke the quiet of the little garden.

Aunt Molly had a vigorous, active mind, and a strong, tenacious memory; and her love of the departed grandeur and Toryism of Court Row, as she called that part of Brattle Street from Ash Street to Mount Auburn, was pleasant and entertaining to those who listened to her tales of other times.

Peace to her memory!

THE SOUNDS OF MORNING IN CAMBRIDGE.
I sing the melodies of early morn. 
Hark!—'t is the distant roar of iron wheels, 
First sound of busy life, and the shrill neigh 
Of vapor-steed, the vale of Brighton threading, 
Region of lowing kine and perfumed breeze. 
Echoes the shore of blue meandering Charles. 
Straightway the chorus of glad chanticleers 
Proclaims the dawn. First comes one clarion note, 
Loud, clear, and long drawn out; and hark! again 
Rises the jocund song, distinct, though distant; 
Now faint and far, like plaintive cry for help 
Piercing the ear of Sleep. Each knight o' the spur, 
Watchful as brave, and emulous in noise, 
With mighty pinions beats a glad reveille. 
All feathered nature wakes. Man's drowsy sense 
Heeds not the trilling band, but slumbrous waits 
The tardy god of day. Ah! sluggard, wake! 
Open thy blind, and rub thy heavy eyes! 
For once behold a sunrise. Is there aught 
In thy dream-world more splendid, or more fair? 
With crimson glory the horizon streams, 
And ghostly Dian hides her face ashamed. 
Now to the ear of him who lingers long 
On downy couch, "falsely luxurious," 
Comes the unwelcome din of college-bell 
Fast tolling. . . . . . 
"'T is but the earliest, the warning peal!" 
He sleeps again. Happy if bustling chum, 
Footsteps along the entry, or perchance, 
In the home bower, maternal knock and halloo, 
Shall break the treacherous slumber. For behold 
The youth collegiate sniff the morning zephyrs, 
Breezes of brisk December, frosty and keen, 
With nose incarnadine, peering above 
Each graceful shepherd's plaid the chin enfolding. 
See how the purple hue of youth and health 
Glows in each cheek; how the sharp wind brings pearls 
From every eye, brightening those dimmed with study, 
And waste of midnight oil, o'er classic page 
Long poring. Boreas in merry mood 
Plays with each unkempt lock, and vainly strives 
To make a football of the Freshman's beaver, 
Or the sage Sophomore's indented felt. 
 Behold the foremost, with deliberate stride 
And slow, approach the chapel, tree-embowered, 
Entering composedly its gaping portal; 
Then, as the iron tongue goes on to rouse 
The mocking echoes with its call, arrive 
Others, with hastier step and heaving chest. 
Anon, some bound along divergent paths 
Which scar the grassy plain, and, with no pause 
For breath, press up the rocky stair. Straightway, 
A desperate few, with headlong, frantic speed, 
Swifter than arrow-flight or Medford whirlwind, 
Sparks flying from iron-shod heels at every footfall, 
Over stone causeway and tessellated pavement,— 
They come—they come—they leap—they scamper in, 
Ere, grating on its hinges, slams the door 
Inexorable. . . . . . 
Pauses the sluggard, at Wood and Hall's just crossing, 
The chime melodious dying on his ear. 
Embroidered sandals scarce maintain their hold 
Upon his feet, shuffling, with heel exposed, 
And 'neath his upper garment just appears 
A many-colored robe; about his throat 
No comfortable scarf, but crumpled gills 
Shrink from the scanning eye of passenger 
The omnibus o'erhauling. List! 't was the last, 
Last stroke! it dies away, like murmuring wave. 
Bootless he came,—and bootless wends he back, 
Gnawing his gloveless thumb, and pacing slow. 
Bright eyes might gaze on him, compassionate, 
But that yon rosy maiden, early afoot, 
Is o'er her shoulder watching, with wild fear, 
A horned host that rushes by amain, 
Bellowing bassoon-like music. Angry shouts 
Of drovers, horrid menace, and dire curse, 
Shrill scream of imitative boy, and crack 
Of cruel whip, the tread of clumsy feet 
Are hurrying on:—but now, with instinct sure, 
Madly those doomed ones bolt from the dread road 
That leads to Brighton and to death. They charge 
Up Brattle Street. Screaming the maiden flies, 
Nor heeds the loss of fluttering veil, upborne 
On sportive breeze, and sailing far away. 
And now a flock of sheep, bleating, bewildered, 
With tiny footprints fret the dusty square, 
And huddling strive to elude relentless fate. 
And hark! with snuffling grunt, and now and then 
A squeak, a squad of long-nosed gentry run 
The gutters to explore, with comic jerk 
Of the investigating snout, and wink 
At passer-by, and saucy, lounging gait, 
And independent, lash-defying course. 
And now the baker, with his steaming load, 
Hums like the humble-bee from door to door, 
And thoughts of breakfast rise; and harmonies 
Domestic, song of kettle, and hissing urn, 
Glad voices, and the sound of hurrying feet, 
Clatter of chairs, and din of knife and fork, 
Bring to a close the Melodies of Morn.
THE SOUNDS OF EVENING IN CAMBRIDGE.
The Melodies of Morning late I sang. 
Recall we now those Melodies of Even 
Which charmed our ear, the summer-day o'erpast; 
Full of the theme, O Phoebus, hear me sing. 
What time thy golden car draws near its goal,— 
Mount Auburn's pillared summit,—chorus loud 
Of mud-born songsters fills the dewy air. 
Hark! in yon shallow pool, what melody 
Is poured from swelling throats, liquid and bubbling, 
As if the plaintive notes thrilled struggling through 
The stagnant waters and the waving reeds. 
Monotonous the melancholy strain, 
Save when the bull-frog, from some slimy depth 
Profound, sends up his deep "Poo-toob!" "Poo-toob!" 
Like a staccato note of double bass 
Marking the cadence. The unwearied crickets 
Fill up the harmony; and the whippoorwill 
His mournful solo sings among the willows. 
The tree-toad's pleasant trilling croak proclaims 
A coming rain; a welcome evil, sure, 
When streets are one long ash-heap, and the flowers 
Fainting or crisp in sun-baked borders stand. 
Mount Auburn's gate is closed. The latest 'bus 
Down Brattle Street goes rumbling. Laborers 
Hie home, by twos and threes; homeliest phizzes, 
Voices high-pitched, and tongues with telltale burr-r-r-r, 
The short-stemmed pipe, diffusing odors vile, 
Garments of comic and misfitting make, 
And steps which tend to Curran's door, (a man 
Ignoble, yet quite worthy of the name 
Of Fill-pot Curran,) all proclaim the race 
Adopted by Columbia, grumblingly, 
When their step-mother country casts them off. 
Here with a creaking barrow, piled with tools 
Keen as the wit that wields them, hurries by 
A man of different stamp. His well-trained limbs 
Move with a certain grace and readiness, 
Skilful intelligence every muscle swaying. 
Rapid his tread, yet firm; his scheming brain 
Teems with broad plans, and hopes of future wealth, 
And time and life move all too slow for him. 
Will he industrious gains and home renounce 
To grow more quickly rich in lands unblest? 
Hear'st thou that gleeful shout? Who opes the gate, 
The neatly painted gate, and runs before 
With noisy joy? Now from the trellised door 
Toddles another bright-haired boy. And now 
Captive they lead the father; strong their grasp; 
He cannot break away. 
                    Dreamily quiet 
The dewy twilight of a summer eve. 
Tired mortals lounge at casement or at door, 
While deepening shadows gather round. No lamp 
Save in yon shop, whose sable minister 
His evening customers attends. Anon, 
With squeaking bucket on his arm, emerges 
The errand-boy, slow marching to the tune 
Of "Uncle Ned" or "Norma," whistled shrill. 
Hark! heard you not against the window-pane 
The dash of horny skull in mad career, 
And a loud buzz of terror? He'll be in, 
This horrid beetle; yes,—and in my hair! 
Close all the blinds; 't is dismal, but 't is safe. 
Listen! Methought I heard delicious music, 
Faint and afar. Pray, is the Boat-Club out? 
Do the Pierian minstrels meet to-night? 
Or chime the bells of Boston, or the Port? 
Nearer now, nearer—Ah! bloodthirsty villain, 
Is 't you? Too late I closed the blind! Alas! 
List! there's another trump!—There, two of 'em!— 
Two? A quintette at least. Mosquito chorus! 
A—ah! my cheek! And oh! again, my eyelid! 
I gave myself a stunning cuff on the ear 
And all in vain. Flap we our handkerchief; 
Flap, flap! (A smash.) Quick, quick, bring in a lamp! 
I've switched a flower-vase from the shelf. Ah me! 
Splash on my head, and then upon my feet, 
The water poured;—I'm drowned! my slipper's full! 
My dickey—ah! 't is cruel! Flowers are nonsense! 
I'd have them amaranths all, or made of paper. 
Here, wring my neckcloth, and rub down my hair! 
 Now Mr. Brackett, punctual man, is ringing 
The curfew bell; 't is nine o'clock already. 
'T is early bedtime, yet methinks 't were joy 
On mattress cool to stretch supine. At midnight, 
Were it winter, I were less fatigued, less sleepy. 
Sleep! I invoke thee, "comfortable bird, 
That broodest o'er the troubled waves of life, 
And hushest them to peace." All hail the man 
Who first invented bed! O, wondrous soft 
This pillow to my weary head! right soon 
My dizzy thoughts shall o'er the brink of sleep 
Fall into chaos and be lost. I dream. 
Now comes mine enemy, not silently, 
But with insulting and defiant warning; 
Come, banquet, if thou wilt; I offer thee 
My cheek, my arm. Tease me not, hovering high 
With that continuous hum; I fain would rest. 
Come, do thy worst at once. Bite, scoundrel, bite! 
Thou insect vulture, seize thy helpless prey! 
No ceremony! (I'd have none with thee, 
Could I but find thee.) Fainter now and farther 
The tiny war-whoop; now I hear it not. 
A cowardly assassin he; he waits, 
Full well aware that I am on the alert, 
With murderous intent. Perchance he's gone, 
Hawk-eye and nose of hound not serving him 
To find me in the dark. With a long sigh, 
I beat my pillow, close my useless eyes, 
And soon again my thoughts whirl giddily, 
Verging towards dreams. Starting, I shake my bed;— 
Loud thumps my heart,—rises on end my hair! 
A murder-screech, and yells of frantic fury, 
Under my very window,—a duet 
Of fiendish hatred, battle to the death,— 
'T is enough to enrage a man! Missile I seize, 
Not caring what, and with a savage "Scat!" 
That scrapes my throat, let drive. I would it were 
A millstone! Swiftly through the garden beds 
And o'er the fence on either side they fly; 
I to my couch return, but not to sleep. 
Weary I toss, and think 't is almost dawn, 
So still the streets; but now the latest train, 
Whistling melodiously, comes in; the tramp 
Of feet, and hum of voices, echo far 
In the still night air. Now with joy I feel 
My eyelids droop once more. To sleep and dream 
Is bliss unspeakable;—I'm going off;— 
What was I thinking last?—slowly I rise 
On downy pinions; dreaming, I fly, I soar;— 
Through the clouds my way I'm winging, 
Angels to their harps are singing, 
Strains of unearthly sweetness lull me, 
And thrilling harmonies——"Yelp! Bow-wow-wow!" 
"Get out!"—"The dog has got me by the leg!" 
"Stave him off! Will you? See, he's rent my pants, 
My newest plaid!—Kick him!"—"Yow, yow!"—"This house 
I'll never serenade again!—A dog 
Should know musicians from suspicious chaps, 
And gentlemen from rowdies, even at night!" 
"Beat him again!" "No, no! Perhaps 't is Hers! 
A lady's pet! Methinks the curtain moves! 
She's looking out! Let's sing once more! Just once!" 
"Not I.—I'll sing no more to-night!" and steps 
Limping unequally, and grumbling voice, 
Pass round the corner, and are heard no more. 
TO THE NEAR-SIGHTED.
Purblind and short-sighted friends! You will listen to me,—you will sympathize with me; for you know by painful experience what I mean when I say that we near-sighted people do not receive from our hawk-eyed neighbors that sympathy and consideration to which we are justly entitled. If we were blind, we should be abundantly pitied, but as we are only half-blind, such comments as these are all the consolation we get. "Oh! near-sighted, is she? Yes, it is very fashionable now-a-days for young ladies to carry eye-glasses, and call themselves near-sighted!" Or, "Pooh! It's all affectation. She can see as well as any body, if she chooses. She thinks it is pretty to half shut her eyes, and cut her acquaintances." I meet my friend A——, some morning, who returns my salutation with cold politeness, and says, "How cleverly you managed to cut me at the concert last night!" "At the concert! I did not see you." "O no! You could see well enough to bow to pretty Miss B——, and her handsome cousin; but as for seeing your old schoolmate, two seats behind her,—of course you are too near-sighted!" In vain I protest that I could not see her,—that three yards is a great distance to my eyes. She leaves me with an incredulous smile, and that most provoking phrase, "O yes! I suppose so!" and distrusts me ever afterwards. Alas! we see just enough to seal our own condemnation.

Who is free from this malady? As I look around in society, I see staring glassy ellipses on every side "in the place where eyes ought to grow,"—and perhaps most of the unfortunate owls get along very comfortably with their artificial eyes. But imagine a bashful youth, awkward and near-sighted, whose friends dissuade him from wearing glasses. Is there in the universe an individual more unlucky, more blundering, more sincerely to be pitied?

See that little boy, who, having put on his father's spectacles, is enjoying for the first time a clear and distinct view of the evening sky. "Oh! is that pretty little yellow dot a star?" exclaims the delighted child. Poor innocent! a star had always been to him a dim, cloudy spot, a little nebula, which the magic glass has now resolved; and he can hardly believe that this brilliant point is not an optical illusion. But when his mother assures him that the stars always appear so to her, and he turns to look in her face, he says, "Why, mother! how beautiful you look! Please to give me some little spectacles, all my own!" She could not resist this entreaty,—(who could?)—and little "Squire Specs" does not mind the shouts of his companions or the high-sounding nicknames they give him, he so rejoices in what seems to him a new sense, a second sight.

I was summoned, the other day, to welcome a family of cousins from a distant State, whom I had not seen for a very long time. They were accompanied, I was told, by a Boston lady, a stranger to us. I entered the room with considerable empressement, but when my eye detected the dim outline of a circle of bonneted figures, I stopped in despair in the middle of the room, not knowing which was which, or whom I ought to speak to first, and at last made an embarrassed half-bow, half-courtesy, to the company in general. A confused murmur of greetings and introductions followed, and, throwing aside my air of stiff, ceremonious politeness, I rushed, with a smiling face, to the nearest lady, shook hands with her in the most cordial manner, and then, in passing, bowed formally to the next, who I concluded was the stranger. What then was my surprise and utter confusion when she caught me by the hand, and, drawing me towards her, kissed me emphatically several times. "How do you do, dear? Have you quite forgotten me? Ah! You don't remember the times when you used to ride a cock-horse, on my knee, to Banbury Cross, to see the old lady get on her white horse!" What could I say? I was petrified. I could not smile, I could not speak. My only feeling was mortification at my most awkward mistake. Yet I ought to have become accustomed to such embarrassments, for they are of very frequent occurrence.

"Why, Julia! what is the matter? How strangely your eyes look!" My sister at this exclamation turns round, and I discover that from the other end of the room I have been gazing at the unexpressive features of her "back hair," which is twisted in a "pug," or "bob,"—which is the correct term?—and surmounted by a tortoise-shell comb.

But in the whole course of my numerous mistakes and blunders, whether ludicrous, serious, or embarrassing, I believe I have never mistaken a cow for a human being, as was done by old Dr. E——. It was many years ago, when Boston Common was still used as a pasture, and cows were daily to be met in the crooked streets of the city, that this gentleman, distinguished for the courtesy and old-school politeness of his manner, no less than for his extreme near-sightedness, was walking at a brisk pace, one winter's day, and saw, just before him, a lady, as he thought, richly dressed in furs. As he was passing her, he thought he perceived that her fur boa or tippet had escaped from her neck, and, carefully lifting the end of it with one hand, he made a low bow, raising his hat with the other, and said in his blandest tone, "Madam, you are losing your tippet!" And what thanks did the worthy Doctor receive, do you think, for this truly kind and polite deed? Why, the lady merely turned her head, gave him a wondering stare with her large eyes, and said, "Moo-o-o-o!"

As an offset to this instance of courtesy and good-breeding lavished on a cow, let me give you, as a parting bon-bouche, another cow anecdote, where, as you will see, there was no gentle politeness wasted.

The Rev. Dr. H—— was an eccentric old man, near-sighted of course,—all eccentric people are,—who lived in a small country town in this neighborhood. Numerous are the traditionary accounts of his peculiarities,—of his odd manners and customs,—which I have heard; but it is only of one little incident that I am now going to speak. A favorite employment of this good man was the care of his garden, and he might be seen any pleasant afternoon in summer, rigged out in a hideous yellow calico robe, or blouse, with a dusty old black straw hat stuck on the back of his head, hoeing and digging in that beloved patch of ground. One day as he was thus occupied, his wife emerged from the house, dressed in a dark brown gingham, and bearing in her hand some "muslins," which she began to spread upon the gooseberry-bushes to whiten. She was very busily engaged, so that she was not aware that her husband was approaching her with a large stick, until she felt a smart blow across her shoulders, and heard his peculiar, sharp voice shouting in her ears, "Go 'long! old cow! Go 'long! old cow!"

FLOWERS FROM A STUDENT'S WALKS.
As the animal dies of inanition if fed on but one kind of food, however congenial, yet lives if he has all in succession, so is it with complex man.

Learn retrenchment from the starving oyster, who spends his last energies in a new pearly layer suited to his shrunken form.

As animals which have no organs of special sense know not light or sound as we do, yet shrink from a hand or candle because their whole bodies are dimly conscious, thus we have a glimmering perception of infinite truths and existences which we cannot grasp or fully know because our minds have no special organs for them.

The prick in the butterfly's wing will be in the full-grown insect a great blemish. The speck in thy child's nature, if fondly overlooked now, will become a wide rent traversing all his virtues.

As mineral poisons kill, because by their strong affinity they decompose the blood and form new stony substances, so the soul possessed by too strong an affinity for gold petrifies.

Our principles are central forces, our desires tangential; it requires both to describe the curve of life.

The slightest inclination of a standing body virtually narrows its base; the least departure from integrity lessens our foundation. The pyramid, broad-based, yet heaven-pointed, is the firmest figure. Most characters are inconsistent, unsymmetrical, and have a base wanting extent in some direction.

Be not over-curious in assigning causes or predicting consequences; the same diagonal may be formed by various combining forces.

Through water the musical sound is not transmitted, only the harsh material noise. In air the noise is heard very near, the musical sounds only are transmitted. Be thankful, poets and prophets, when you live in an element such that your uncomely features are known only to your own village.

"Do not sing its fundamental note too loud near a delicate glass, or it will break," whispered my friend to me, as he saw me gazing at this lovely being.

Seek the golden mean of life. Like the temperate regions, it has but few thorny plants.

Be doubly careful of those to whom nature has been a niggard. The oak and the palm take their own forms under all circumstances; the fungi seem to owe theirs to outward influences.

It is a poor plant that crisps quickly into wood. It is a meagre character which runs perpetually into prejudices.

As light suffers from no change of medium when it falls perpendicularly, so the consequences of a perfectly upright action, or cause of action, are strictly fortunate. But let it be ever so little oblique, the new medium will exaggerate its obliquity; and the farther it departs from uprightness, the more frightfully it is distorted.

Hoops and coins, which cannot preserve their equilibrium when in rest, keep it when set in motion. Man also in activity finds his safest position.

As it takes a diamond to cut and shape a diamond, so there are faults so obstinate that they can be worn away only by life-long contact with similar faults in those we love.

Learn the virtue of action. Who inquires whether momentum comes from mass or velocity? But velocity has this advantage; it depends on ourselves.

The grass is green after these October rains, because in the July drought it struck deep roots.

MISERIES.
No. 1.
Did you ever try to eat a peach elegantly and gracefully? Of course you have. Show me a man who has not tried the experiment, when under the restraint of human surveillance, and I shall look upon him as a curiosity. There is no fruit, certainly, which has so fair and alluring an exterior; but few content themselves with feasting their eyes upon it. How fresh and ripe it looks as it lies upon the plate, with its rosy cheek turned temptingly upward! How cool and soft is the downy skin to the touch! And the fragrance, so suggestive of its rich, delicious flavor, who can resist? Ah, unhappy wight! Bitterly you shall repent your rashness. Any other fruit can be eaten with comparative ease and politeness; a peach was evidently intended only to be looked at, or enjoyed beneath your own tree, where no eye may watch and criticize your motions.

I see you, in imagination, at a party, standing in the middle of the room, plate in hand, regarding your peach as if it were some great natural curiosity. A sudden jog of your elbow compels you to a succession of most dexterous balancings as your heavy peach rolls from side to side, knocks down your knife, and threatens to plunge after it when you stoop to regain it. You look distractedly round for a table, but all are occupied. Even the corner of the mantel-shelf holds a plate, and you enviously see the owner thereof leaning carelessly against the chimney, and looking placidly round upon his less fortunate companions. You glance at the different groups to see if any one else is in your most unenviable predicament. Ah, yes! Yonder stands a gentleman worse off yet, for, in addition to your perplexities, he is talking with a young, laughing girl, who is watching his movements, with a merry twinkle in her bright eyes. He evidently wishes to astonish her by his dexterity, and disappoint her roguish expectations. He holds his plate firmly in his left hand, and proceeds, at once, to cut his peach in halves. Deuce take the blunt silver knife! The tough skin resists its pressure. The knife and plate clash loudly together; the peach is bounding and rolling at the very feet of the young lady, who is in an ecstasy of laughter. Ah! she herself has no small resemblance to a peach, fair, beautiful, and attractive without, and, I sadly fear, with a hard heart beneath.

Are you yet more miserable than before? Turn then to yonder sober-looking gentleman, who certainly seems sufficiently composed to perform the difficult manoeuvre. He has the advantage of a table to be sure; but that is not every thing. He begins right, by deliberately removing the woolly skin. Now he lays the slippery peach in his plate, and makes a plunge at it with his knife. A sharp, prolonged screech across his plate salutes the ears of all the bystanders, and a fine slice of juicy pulp is flung unceremoniously into the face of the gentleman opposite, who certainly does not look very grateful for the unexpected gift.

Every one, of course, has seen the awkward accident. O no! That pretty, animated girl upon the sofa is much too pleasantly engaged, that is evident, to be watching her neighbors. Playing carelessly with her fan, and casting many sparkling glances upward at the two gentlemen who are vying with each other in their gallant attentions, she has enough to do without noticing other people. She is happily unconscious of the mortification which is in store for her, or wilfully shuts her eyes to the peril. Alas! Her hand is resting, even now, upon the destroyer of all her present enjoyment, the beautiful, fragrant, treacherous peach. With a nonchalance really shocking to the anxious beholder, she raises it, and breaks it open, talking the while, and scarcely bestowing a thought upon what she is about. Dexterously done; but—O luckless maiden!—the fruit is ripe, and rich, and juicy, and the running drops fall, not into her plate, but upon the delicate folds of her dress.

The merry repartee dies away upon her lips, as she becomes conscious of the catastrophe. It is with a forced smile that she declares, "It is nothing; O, not of the slightest consequence!" That unlucky peach! How many blunders, how many pauses, how many absent-minded remarks it occasions! She makes the most frenzied attempts to regain her former gayety, but in vain. Her gloves are stained and sticky with the flowing juice, and she is oppressed by the conviction that all her partners for the rest of the evening will hate her most heartily. An expression of real vexation steals over her pretty face, and she gives up her plate to one of the attendant beaux, with not so much as a wish that he will return to her. Where are the arch smiles, the lively tones, the quick and ready responses now? Her spirit is quenched. Her manner has become subdued, depressed,—shall I say it?—yes, even sulky.

Ah! I see your courage will not brave laughter. You steal to the table, half ashamed of yourself as you set down your untasted peach. Your sudden zeal to relieve those ladies of their plates serves as a very good excuse for the relinquishment of your own. You have rescued yourself very well from your dilemma this time. Remember my advice for the future. Never accept a peach in company.

MISERIES.
No. 2.
A Dark Night.

There are some people who seem to have the faculty which horses and dogs are said to possess,—of seeing in the dark. But I, alas! am blind and blundering as a beetle; I never can find my way about house in the evening, without a lamp to illumine my path. Many smarting remembrances have I of bruised nose and black eyes, the consequences of attempting to run through a partition, under the full conviction that I have arrived at an open door. My most prominent feature has been rudely assailed, also, by doors standing ajar, unexpectedly, which I have embraced with both outstretched arms. Crickets, tables, chairs (especially chairs with very sharp rockers), and other movable articles of furniture, have stationed themselves, as it would seem, with malicious intent to trip me up. Some murderous contusion makes me suddenly conscious of their presence. Then a feeling of complete bewilderment and helplessness and timidity comes over me. I have not the least idea in what part of the room I am. I am oppressed with a sense of chairs, scattered about in improbable places. I long most ardently for a lamp, or only for one gleam from a neighbor's window. It is no rare thing for me to discover, by a thrilling touch upon the cold glass, that I have been feeling my way exactly in the opposite direction from what I imagined. Strange how ideas of direction and distance are lost when the sight is powerless! Touch may find out mistakes, but cannot always prevent them. Touch may convince me that I have arrived at my bureau, but it is too careless to perceive (what the poor, straining eyes would have discovered at a glance) the open upper drawer that salutes my forehead as I stoop hastily to grasp the handles beneath. Touch is clumsy. It only serves to upset valuable plants, inkstands, solar lamps, &c., with an appalling crash, and then leaves me standing aghast, in utter uncertainty as to the extent of the catastrophe. In such emergencies a rush for the stairs is the first impulse. Ah! but those stairs!

I will pass over the startling plunge which begins my descent, the frantic snatch for the banisters, and the strange, momentary doubt as to which foot must move first, like what a child may feel when learning to walk. All this only serves to render me so over-careful, that, when I actually arrive at the foot of the staircase, I cannot believe it, until a loud scuff, and the shock that follows the interruption of my expected descent, assure me beyond a doubt. There is nothing more exasperating than this, unless it may be the corresponding disappointment in running up stairs, when you raise your foot high in air, and bring it down with an emphatic stamp exactly upon a level with the other.

But these are mere household experiences. Sad though they are, I esteem them as nothing in comparison with my adventures out of doors. In a dark night, and especially in a night both dark and stormy, I feel myself one of the most wretched beings in existence. Imagine a vessel lost in the wide ocean, and without a compass, and you will have some faint idea of my perplexity, discouragement, and loneliness at such a time. I have a strange propensity for shooting off into the gutter, or for shouldering the fences, under the impression that I am pursuing a straight course. I go quite out of my way to trip over chance stones, or to pick out choice bits of slippery ice. I splash recklessly through deep puddles, stumble over unfortunate scrapers, walk unexpectedly into open cellars, and lay my length upon wet stone doorsteps. I start back at visions of posts looming up in the darkness, and whitewashed fences and trees, all of which would be quite unlikely to be standing in the middle of the sidewalk, and which disappear at the first reasonable thought. I run into harmless passengers as if I would knock the breath of life out of them, and tangle our umbrellas together so fearfully that they spin round and round some time after their separation. O that umbrella of mine! Sometimes I hook it in the drooping branches of trees, and, losing my hold in the suddenness of the shock, have the gratification of feeling it tip up, and go down over my shoulder into the mud behind me. Its bone tips tap and scratch at the windows as I go by, and scrape against the tall fences, like fingers trying to catch at something to hold on by, and stop my progress. It hits a low branch, and its varnished handle slips through my woollen gloves, knocking my hat over my eyes, and extinguishing me for the time being. As if the night were not dark enough without!

My friends, I could go on much longer with my complaints, but I feel that I have drawn upon your sympathies sufficiently for the present. You will be as glad to leave me at my own house-door, as I am to find it.

MISERIES.
No. 3.
Twine.

Under the general head of string, I might enumerate a long list of this world's miseries. Shoe-strings alone comprehend an amount of wretchedness, which is but feebly described in the tragical story of Jemmy String. Bonnet-strings and apron-strings, dickey-strings and watch-guards, curtain-cord, bed-cord, and cod-line, each and all have furnished enough discomfort to make out a long grumbling article. But I cannot linger to describe their treacherous desertions when their services are most needed, their unexpected weakness, and their obstinate entanglements when time presses. A certain pudding-bag string is commemorated in one of the beautiful couplets of Mother Goose's Melodies. I am sure you cannot have forgotten it, nor the staring spotted cat that is there represented racing away with her booty. That lamented pudding-bag string is but a type of strings in general. They are fleeting possessions, always hiding, always misplaced, never in order. You fit up a string-drawer, perhaps, with a fine assortment, and pride yourself upon its nice arrangement. Go to it a week after, and see if you can find one ball where you left it! Can you lay your hand upon a single piece that you want? No, indeed! Twine is considered common property. If any one has a use for it, he takes it without leave or license, without even inquiring who is the owner, and you may be sure he will never bring any of it back again. O the misery endured for the want of an errant piece of twine, when you are in a nervous hurry to do up a parcel, some one waiting at the door meanwhile! After an immense deal of pains, you have it at last folded to your liking, with every corner squared and even, every wrinkle smoothed. Then, clasping tightly with one hand the stiff wrapper, you search distractedly with the other for a ball of twine, which you distinctly remember tossing into the paper-drawer only the day before. In vain you surround yourself with newspaper and brown paper, and useless rubbish, tumbling your whole drawer into confusion. In vain you relinquish your nicely packed parcel, and see its contents scattered in all directions. In vain you grumble and scold. The ball is not forthcoming. Your little brother has seized it to fly his kite, or your sister is even now tying up her trailing morning-glories, or sweet peas, with the stolen booty. You plunge your hand exploringly into the drawer, and bring up a long roll wound thickly with twine of all kinds and colors. Your eyes sparkle at the prize; but, alas! the first energetic pull leaves in your hand a piece about four inches long, and a quantity of dangling ends and rough knots convince you that you have nothing to hope in that quarter. A second plunge brings up a handful of odds and ends, strong pieces clumsy and rough, coarse red quill-cord, delicate two-colored bits far too short, cotton twine breaking at a touch, fine long pieces hopelessly tangled together, so that not even an end is visible. The more you twitch at the loops, the more desperate is the snarl. Poor mortal! Your pride gives way before the urgency of haste. You send off your nice packet miserably tied together by two kinds of twine.

All the rest of the day you are tormented by a superfluity of the very thing you needed so much. It was impossible to get it when you wanted it; but now it is pertinaciously in your way when you do not want it. You almost break your neck tripping over a long, firm cord, which proves to be a pair of reins left hanging on a chair by some careless urchin. The carpet and furniture are strewed with long, straggling pieces of packthread. You find a white end dangling conspicuously from your waistcoat pocket. As you walk the streets you see twine flying from fences, or lying useless on the sidewalk, black with dust and age. To crown the whole, a friend comes with a piece of twine extending across two rooms, and asks you to help him twist and double it into a cord. It is a very entertaining process. You amuse yourself with watching one little rough place that whirls swiftly round, stops with a jerk, turns hesitatingly one side and the other, then, yielding to a new impulse, flies round and round again till you are dizzy. You look with great complacency at the tightening twist, now brought almost to perfection. You turn it carelessly in your fingers, scarcely noticing its convulsive starts for freedom. Ah! your imprudent friend, without any warning, gives it a final pull to stretch it into shape. The twine slips from your grasp, springs away across the room, curls itself into a succession of snarls and twisted loops, and then lies motionless. Your friend looks thunderstruck. With a hasty apology, you step forward and tightly clasp the recreant end. You are in nervous expectation of dropping it again. Your fingers are benumbed at the tips with their tight compression, and the constant twitching. They give a sudden jerk. You make an involuntary clutch for the cord, but in vain. It is rapidly untwisting at the very feet of your companion, who looks at it in despair. Again you make an attempt with no success at all, the refractory twine eluding your utmost endeavors to hold it. Once more! Your fellow-twister walks off at last, with a wretchedly rough affair, which he good humoredly says "will do very well."

MISERIES.
No. 4.
I believe the world has gone quite crazy on the subject of fresh air. In the next century people will think they must sleep on the house-tops, I suppose, or camp out in tents in primitive style. Nothing is talked about but ventilators, and air-tubes, and chimney-draughts. One would suppose that fire-places were invented expressly for cooling and airing a room, instead of heating it. There was no such fuss when I was young; in those good old times these airy notions had not come into fashion. Where the loose window-sashes rattled at every passing breeze, and the wind chased the smoke down the wide-mouthed chimney, nobody complained of being stifled. There were no furnaces then to spread a summer heat to every corner of the house. No, indeed! We ran shivering through the long, windy entries, all wrapped in shawls, and hugging ourselves to retain the friendly warmth of the fire as long as possible. Far from devising ways of letting in the air, we tried hard to keep it out by stuffing the cracks with cotton, and closely curtaining the windows and bed. Even then, the ice in the wash-basin, and the electricity which made our hair literally stand on end in the process of combing, and the gradual transformation of fingers into thumbs, showed but too plainly that the wintry air had penetrated our defences. When we crowded joyfully round a crackling, sparkling wood-fire, even while our faces glowed with the intense heat, cold shivers were creeping down our backs, and sudden draughts from an opening door set our teeth chattering. I often wished myself on a spit, to revolve slowly before the fire until thoroughly roasted. Not from any want of air, I assure you, we children were always breaking panes of glass on the bitterest days, and the glazier was never known to come under a week to replace them. Why people should wish to revive, and live through again, the miseries of such a frost-nipped childhood, I cannot imagine.

I, for one, love a snug house, even a warm house. I am of a chilly temperament, and subject to rheumatism, horrible colds, &c. Fresh air is my bane. I banish all books on the subject from my table. I studiously avoid all notorious fresh-air lovers, or try in every way to bring over the poor, misguided mortals to my views; but it is of no use. Fresh air is the fashion, and is run to extremes, as all fashions must be. I call in a physician; lo! fresh air is recommended as a tonic. I give a party; of course my windows are all thrown open, and foolish young girls, in the thinnest of white muslins, are standing in the draught; and such a whirlwind is raised by the flirting of fans, and the rush of the dancers, that I am blown, like a dry leaf, into a corner, where I stand shivering, and making rueful attempts to appear smiling and hospitable. I go out to pass a social afternoon with a friend, and am set down in a room just above the freezing-point, with a little crack opened in the window, and all the doors flying, to change the air. I ride in the omnibus, and am almost choked with my bonnet-strings, such a furious draught meets me in the face, and when, with infinite pains, I have secured the only tolerably warm corner, my next neighbor becomes very faint, and must have the window open. Even the poor babies are not safe from this popular insanity. You may see the little victims any day, taking an airing, with their little red noses and watery eyes peeping forth from under the cap and feathers. The old-fashioned blanket, in which the baby was done up head and all, like a bundle, is thrown aside. The child is not quite so often carried upside down. I suppose, under the new system, but what difference does it make whether the poor thing is smothered or frozen to death?

I never shall forget a long journey I took once with a friend who was raving mad on the subject of fresh air and cold water. Every morning the windows were thrown wide open, and the blinds flung back with an energetic bang, while a stiff wintry wind whirled every thing about the room, and flapped the curtains against the ceiling. And there she stood, declaring herself exhilarated, while her nose and lips turned from red to blue, and the tears ran down her cheeks. I always took to flight. Afterwards the poor auto-martyr went out to walk before breakfast, scornfully rejecting all offers of furs and extra wrappings. O dear, no! She never thought of muffs, tippets, snow-boots, but as encumbrances fit for extreme old age and infirmity. She always walked fast, and the more the wind blew, the warmer she felt, I might be assured. As soon as she had gone, I established myself in comfort by the side of a glowing grate, happy but for dreading her return. She came in dreadfully fresh and breezy from the outer air, very energetic, very noisy, and fully bent upon stirring me up and making me take exercise. After snapping the door open and slamming it behind her with a clap that greatly disturbed my nerves, she exclaimed in a stentorian voice, "O dear me! I shall die in such an oven! My dear child, you have no idea how hot it is!" And the first thing I knew, up would go a window with a crash that made the weights rattle. It might rain or shine; weather made no difference to this inveterate air-seeker. Many a time has she come in all dripping, and tracking the carpet, brushed carelessly against me with her wet garments, and finally enveloped me with the steam arising from them as they hung around my fire. It roused my indignation that she should make herself and every body else so uncomfortable, and then glory in the deed as if it were indubitably and indisputably praiseworthy. She was so good-natured, however, and so happy in her delusion, that I could not find it in my heart to remonstrate very vehemently, except when she would make me listen to her interminable lectures upon the importance, the necessity, of fresh air, and the effect of a snug, cosy room upon the blood, the heart, the lungs, the head, and (as I verily believe she hinted) the temper. I know I lost all control of mine long before she finished; but whether it was the want of fresh air in practice, or too much of it in theory, I leave you to imagine.

My friend always carried a small thermometer in her trunk, which she consulted a dozen times an hour, in order to regulate the temperature of the room. Alas for me if the quicksilver rose above 60! I devoutly hoped she would leave it behind in some of our numerous stopping-places, and with an eye to that possibility, I must confess, I hung it in the most out-of-the-way corners I could find; but it seemed to be on her mind continually. She never forgot it, and always packed it very carefully, too. I asked her two or three times to let me put it in my trunk, where I had slyly arranged a nice little place full of hard surfaces and sharp corners, but she always had plenty of room.

I believe my zealous friend is now residing at the sea-shore, freezing in the cold sea-winds, and losing her breath every morning in the briny wave, under the strange illusion that she is improving her health.

FAREWELL.
They tell me my hat is old! 
 I scarce believe it so; 
But since I'm uncivilly told 
 The dear old thing must go, 
I bid thee farewell, old hat, 
                Good hat! 
Farewell to thee, good old hat!
I must soon to the city his, 
 And trudge to some horrid store, 
A smart new tile to buy, 
 With a heart exceedingly sore, 
For I cast off a long-tried friend, 
                A close friend,— 
I'm ashamed of a trusty old friend.
Ah, let me remember with tears 
 The day thou wast first my own, 
When I settled thee over my ears, 
 Then with soap-locks overgrown. 
"Hurra for a beaver hat, 
                A sleek hat! 
A cheer for a sleek beaver hat!"
That day is in memory green 
 Among those that were all of that hue; 
Sweet days of my youth! Ah! I've seen 
 But too many since that were blue. 
How smooth was our front, my hat, 
                My first hat! 
Unbent were our brows, my first hat!
The first dent,—what a sorrow it was! 
 Were it only my skull instead! 
Indignant I think on the cause, 
 And pommel my stupid head. 
I was new to the care of a hat, 
                A tall hat,— 
Unworthy to wear a tall hat.
The omnibus portal, low-browed, 
 Had ne'er grazed my humble cap, 
But it knocked off my beaver so proud, 
 Which into a puddle fell slap. 
Alas for my dignified hat, 
                My proud hat! 
Woe to my lofty-crowned hat!
It survived, but it had a weak side, 
 And so had its wearer, perchance, 
Since I left it on stairs to abide, 
 At a house where I went to a dance. 
A lady ran into my hat, 
                My poor hat! 
She demolished my invalid hat!
INNOCENT SURPRISES.
I am somewhat inclined to the opinion, that, if positive legislation could be brought to bear upon this subject, making it a criminal offence for one person deliberately to concoct and designedly to spring a surprise upon another, society would derive incalculable benefit from the act. For the ordinary and inevitable surprises of every-day life are sufficiently frequent and startling to content even the most romantic disposition; entirely dispensing with the necessity of those artfully contrived, embarrassing little plots which one's friends occasionally set in motion, greatly to their own diversion and the extreme discomfort of the surprised unfortunate. For he who has ever broken his skull on a treacherous sidewalk, or received from the post a dunning missive when he expected a love-letter, or arrived one minute late at the car-station, or taken a desperately bad bill in exchange for good silver, or been caught in a thunderstorm with white pantaloons and no umbrella, knows that the unavoidable surprises of life are in themselves staggerers of quite frequent occurrence, and require not the aid of human invention. But the surprises which we most dread are not those which naturally fall to us as part of the misfortune we are born to inherit; not those which result from unforeseen accidental circumstances, from carelessness on our own part or from the folly of others, from revolutions in the elements or in the affairs of nations; these we can bear, by using against them the best remedies we possess, or by viewing and enduring them as wisdom and philosophy teach us to do. No; our only prayer, in this connection, is that we may be saved from our friends; not from their carelessness, but from their deliberate schemes against our security. In order to reconcile this apparent contradiction in terms, take the following instance of a friendly propensity. You walk into your house at dusky twilight, at that particular hour of evening at which your own brother, if he be a reasonable being, would not expect you to recognize him; one of your family extends his (or her) head from the parlor, and calls upon you at once to enter, and greet "an old friend." You obey, and are immediately confronted with an individual whose countenance wears an expression associated with some reminiscences of your youth, but so dim and undefined is it, that you cannot, for the life of you, give it its appropriate name or place. What is to be done? The recollections of early childhood are expected spontaneously to burst forth from under a heap of later and more vivid associations, and the name, residence, business, and whole history of the unwelcome guest are called upon to suggest themselves within a second's time.

After a long moment of painful hesitation, during which you have in vain tried to stare his name out of him, you clutch at a struggling idea, and blurt out the name of one of your former associates. You do this, not by any means because common sense or conviction suggest the course, but simply because something must instantly be done. The result, of course, is, that you hit upon the wrong name; and now your kind friends can do no more for you; even if they rush to the rescue, and formally introduce the stranger, it is of no avail. The deed is done; you are placed in a position of awkward mortification, which both the stranger and yourself will never forget, and never cease to regret.

Why it is that the feeling of shame which follows upon such mishaps attaches itself exclusively to the innocent sufferers, rather than to those who are the cause of the suffering, I never could understand. This kind of diversion betrays a want of humane consideration in the contriver. It is infinitely more cruel and unamiable than Spanish bull-baitings, or the gladiatorial shows of the ancients, inasmuch as a shock to the finest feelings of human nature is harder to bear, and longer in duration, than the momentary pang induced by witnessing a merely physical suffering.

THE OLD SAILOR.
In my school vacations I used occasionally to visit an old sailor friend, a man of uncommon natural gifts, and that varied experience of life which does so much to supply the want of other means of education. He must have been a handsome man in his youth, and though time and hardship had done their utmost to make a ruin of his bold features, and had made it needful to braid his still jetty black locks together to cover his bald crown, his was a fine, striking head yet, to my boyish fancy. I loved to sit at his feet, and hear him tell the events of sixty years of toil and danger, suffering and well-earned joy, as he leaned with both hands upon his stout staff, his body swaying with the earnestness of his speech. His labors and perils were now ended, and in his age and infirmity he had found a quiet haven. He had built a small house by the side of the home of his childhood, and his son, who followed his father's vocation, lived under the same roof. This son and two daughters were all that remained to him of a large family.

"An easterly bank and a westerly glim are certain signs of a wet skin!" said the fisherman, pointing to the heavy black masses of cloud that hung over the eastern horizon, one morning when I had risen at sunrise for a day's fishing. "'T won't do; don't go out to-day! There's soon such a breeze off shore, as, with the heavy chop, would make you sick enough! Besides, the old dory won't put up with such a storm as is coming. No fishing, my boy, to-day."

His old father said, "Stephen is right. There is a blow brewing." And he came to look, leaning on his cane. "Stay in to-day."

I yielded, and the sky during the morning slowly assumed a dull, leaden hue. The storm came on in the afternoon, heavily pattering, and pouring, and blowing against the windows, and obscuring the little light of an autumn twilight. I wandered through the few small rooms of the cottage, endeavoring to amuse myself, while the light lasted, with two funeral sermons and an old newspaper. Then I sat down at a window, and I well remember the gloomy landscape, seen through the rain, in the dusk:—the marsh, with the creek dividing it, the bare round eminence between the house and the beach, or rather the rocky cliffs, and on either side the wide, lonely sands, with heavy foam-capped breakers rolling in upon the shore, with a sound like a solemn dirge. At a distance on the left, half hidden by the walnut-trees, lay the ruins of a mill, which had always the air of being haunted. A high, rocky hill, very nearly perpendicular on the side next the house, was covered on the sides and top with junipers, pines, and other evergreens. As the darkness thickened, I left the lonely "best room" for the seat in the large chimney-corner, in the kitchen. The old wife tottered round, making preparations for the evening meal, and muttered recollections of shipwrecks which the storm brought to her mind. Now and then she would go to a window, turn back her cap-border from her forehead, put her face close to the glass, shading off the firelight with her hand, and gaze out into the darkness.

"Asa did not go out either, thank the good Father!" she said. The dog whined piteously. "St! St! Poor Scip! Here, shall have a piece! Good dog! A fearful night indeed it is."

The two men came in from the barn, shook off the wet, and drew near the fire.

"Just such a night, twenty-nine years ago come August, we ran afoul of Hatteras. You remember, old woman, how they frighted ye about me, don't ye?"

Amidst such reminiscences we were called to supper. I remember being solemnly impressed when that old man, bent with hardship and the weight of years, clasped his hands reverently, and in rude terms, but full of meaning, asked a blessing upon their humble board. I remember the flickering light from the logs burning on the hearth, and how it showed, upon the faces of those who sat there, a strong feeling of the words in which rose an added petition in behalf of those on the mighty deep.

Supper being ended, the old man took down the tobacco-board, and, when he had cut enough to fill his pipe, handed it to his son, who, having done the same, restored it to its nail in the chimney-corner. Then they smoked, and talked of dangers braved and overcome, of pirates, and shipwrecks, and escapes, till I involuntarily drew closer into my corner, and looked over my shoulder. Suddenly the dog under the table gave a whining growl.

"I never seed the like o' that dog," exclaimed the fisherman, turning to me. "I thought he was asleep. But if ever a foot comes nigh the house at night, he gives notice. Depend on it, there's some one coming."

The door of the little entry opened, with a rush of the whistling wind, and a man stepped in. The dog half rose, and though he wagged his tail, in token that he knew the step to be that of a friend, he kept up a low whine. A young man, muffled to the eyes, and with the water dripping from his huge pea-jacket, opened the kitchen-door.

"William Crosby, why, what brings you out in such a storm as this? Strip off your coat, and draw up to the fire, can't ye? Where are you bound, then, and the night as dark as a wolf's throat?"

The young fisherman made no answer, unless by a motion of his hand. As he turned back the collar from his face, we saw by the waving light that it was pale as death. The long wet locks already lay upon his cheeks, making them more ghastly as he struggled to speak. "O Stephen Lee, it's no time to be sitting by the fire, when old Asa Osborn is rolling in the waters. A man's drownded; and who's to get the body for the wife and the children—God pity them!—afore the ebb carries it out to sea?"

The old man drew his hand across his forehead, and rose. I looked at him as he drew up his tall figure, and looked the young messenger full in the eye. In a low, deep whisper, he said, "Who, William, did ye say? You said a man's drownded,—but tell me the name again."

"Yes, Gran'sir, I did say it. Old Uncle Ase Flemming, he and the minister went out a fishing in the morning. The minister got his boots off in the water, and after a long time he's swum ashore. But poor Uncle Ase—. Stephen, come along. His poor wife's gone down to the beach, now."

They left the house, and I shut the door after them, and came back softly to my seat by the old man's knee.

Once before I had seen him, when a heavy sorrow fell upon him. It was on a beautiful summer's day, and the open window let in the cool breeze from the sea. He was sitting by it in his arm-chair, looking out upon the calm water, buried in thought. His favorite daughter had long been very low, and might sink away at any moment. The old dog was at his feet asleep. The clock ticked in the corner, and the sun was shining upon the floor. Some friends sat by in silence, with sorrowful countenances. His little grandchild came to his side, and said, "Mother says, tell Grandpa Aunt Lucy's gone home."

The old man did not alter his position. For some time he sat in deep thought, looking out with unseeing gaze, and winding his thumbs, as before. Of five fair daughters, three had before died by the same disease, consumption. He had seen them slowly fade away, one by one, and had followed his children to the grave in the secluded burying-ground, where the green sod was now to be broken to receive the fourth.

Rising slowly, he walked across the room, and, taking the well-worn family Bible, returned with it to his seat; and, as he turned the leaves, he said in a low tone to himself, "There's only one left now!" Then he sat entirely silent, with his eyes fixed upon the sacred page. He did not utter one word of lamentation, he did not shed a tear, but as he turned his eye on me, in passing, its expression went to my heart. Stealing softly out, I left him to the silent Comforter whose blessing is on the mourner.

Now the scene was changed. One was suddenly taken from his side who had been a companion from boyhood to old age. They had played and worked in company; together they had embarked on their first voyage, and their last; and they had settled down in close neighborhood in the evening of their days. Each had preserved the other's life in some moment of peril, but took small praise to himself for so simple an act of duty. Few words of fondness had ever passed between them. They had gone along the path of life, without perhaps being conscious of any peculiarly strong tie of friendship binding them together, till they were thus torn asunder. The death of a daughter, long and slowly wasting away before his eyes, could be calmly borne. But this blow was wholly unforeseen, and his chest heavily rose and fell, and by the bright firelight I saw tears rolling over his weather-beaten cheeks.

"A child will weep a bramble's smart, 
A maid to see her sparrow part, 
A stripling for a woman's heart; 
Talk not of grief, till thou hast seen 
The hard-drawn tears of bearded men."
The fury of the storm being abated, I resolved to follow Stephen down to the shore. He was not in sight, and I knew not what direction to take. It was a gloomy night, the transient glimpses of the moon between driving masses of clouds only making the scene more wild and appalling. I could see the tops of the tall trees bending under the fury of the blast, ere it came to sweep the beach. The heaving billows were covered with foam, far as the eye could reach, and, rising and tumbling, seemed striving with each other as they rolled on towards the sands. I had seen storms upon the ocean before, but never had it presented so awful and majestic an appearance. As the breakers struck upon the shore, and sent a huge mass of water upon the sands, their sullen roar mingled with the howling and rushing of the wind, and filled me with awe.

There were torches upon the beach, and as I drew near, I saw the fishermen run together to one point. The body had just been washed ashore, and lay stretched upon the sands. The head was bare, and long locks of white hair streamed down upon the shoulders. The heavy pea-jacket was off from one arm, as if he had endeavored to extricate himself from it in the water. The sinewy arms lay powerless and free from tension then, but they told me that, when they first drew him from the surf, both hands were grasping a broken oar with such strength that they were unable to loose his hold, till suddenly the muscles relaxed, and the arms fell upon the ground. They turned the body, and a little water ran from the mouth. Then, gently raising it upon their shoulders, they bore it home.

LAUGHTER.
In some individuals the risibles lie so near the surface that you may tickle them with a feather. In others, they are so deeply imbedded in phlegm, or so protected by the crust of ill-humor, that a strong thrust and a keen weapon are required to reach them.

A laugh is in itself a different thing in different individuals. Some persons laugh inwardly, unsocially, bitterly. It is a pure grimace on your part when you join in their merriment, unless you are superior to the fear of ridicule. On the other hand, there is a laugh of so contagious a nature, that you are irresistibly moved to sympathy while ignorant of the exciting cause, or out of the sphere of its influence. You will laugh loud and long, and afterwards confess that you had not the least gleam of a funny idea, all the while.

You doubt the power of the sympathetic laugh? Come with me into the nursery. Here is a rosy little horror, a year and a half old. Sit down and take him upon your knees. Hold his dimpled hands in yours, and look steadily into his roguish eyes. Repeat a nursery rhyme, no matter what, in a humdrum recitative; he is sober, and very attentive. Suddenly spring a mine upon him with a "Boo!" His "Hicketty-hick!" follows, and his eyes begin to shine. Repeat the experiment. "Hicketty-hick!" again, more heartily than at first, with the baby encore, "Adin!" The same process awakens the rapturous little pearls again and again, and you are quite in the spirit of the thing yourself. Now for a more ecstatic burst. You purposely prolong his suspense; he is all atilt, expecting the delightful surprise. You drawl out each word; you drone the ditty over and over again, till every tiny nerve is tense with expectation. "Boo!" at last, and over he goes, in the complete abandon of baby glee; his cherry lips are wide asunder, his head hangs powerless back, and the "Hicketty-hicks" burst tumultuously from his little, beating throat. And you, sir; what are you doing? Laughing, I declare, in full roar, till the tears run down your cheeks. You catch the boy in your arms, toss him, almost throttle him with kisses, and so enhance the merry spasms, that mamma, who has a philosophical instinct with regard to excited nerves, and dreads the reaction, comes to the rescue.

Let me introduce you to another effective laughter. You shall not hear a sound, yet you cannot choose but laugh, if she does, quiet as she is about it. See how her shoulders shake,—and look at her face! Every feature is instinct with mirth; the color mounts to the roots of the hair; the curls vibrate; the eyes sparkle through tears; the white teeth glisten; the very nose and ears seem to take a part; like Nourmahal, she "laughs all over," and while you wonder what the joke may be, you are laughing too.

Do you feel dismal, or anxious? You should hear L. tell a story. She is one of the very few who can undertake with impunity to talk and laugh at the same time. Look and listen, while she describes some comic occurrence. There is no unladylike, boisterous noise, but musical peals of laughter come thick and fast; and faster and thicker, preternaturally fast and thick, come the words with them. And yet each word is distinct; you do not lose a syllable. And I should like to see the man who can resist her, if she chooses he should laugh, even at his own expense.

There is an odd sort of power, too, in the gravity with which B. tells a humorous anecdote. He invariably maintains a sober face while every body is in an agony of laughter around him. Just as it begins to subside, the echo of his own wit comes back to him, and, as if he had just caught the idea, he bursts into one little abrupt explosion, so genuine, so full of heartiness, that it sets every body off upon a fresh score.

Nothing so melts away reserve among strangers, nothing so quickly develops the affinities in chance society, as laughter. A person might be ever so polite, and even kind, and talk sentiment a whole day, and it would not draw me so near to him as the mutual enjoyment of one heartfelt laugh. It is a perfect bond of union; for the time being, you have but one soul between you.

TO STEPHEN.
I saw thee only once, dear boy, and it may be, perchance, 
That ne'er again on earth my eyes shall meet thy gentle glance; 
Years have gone by since then, and thou no longer art the child, 
With earnest eye, and frolic laugh, and look so clear and mild; 
For thee, the smiles and tears and sports of infancy are gone, 
And youth's bright promise, gliding into manhood, has come on;— 
And yet thine image, as a child, will ever stay with me, 
As bright as when, so long ago, I met and welcomed thee.
 What was the charm that lay enshrined within thy smiling eyes? 
What made me all thy childish, winning ways so dearly prize? 
It was thy likeness to another,—one whose looks of love, 
No longer blessing earth, were met by angel eyes above. 
Yet thou hadst not the golden hair, the brow of radiant white, 
Nor the blue eyes so soft and deep, like violets dewy bright; 
But the smiles that played about thy mouth, the sweetness in thine eyes, 
The dimpling cheek that said, "Within, a sunny spirit lies," 
The true and open brow, the bird-like voice, so free and clear, 
The glance that told, "I have not learned the meaning yet of fear," 
And more than all, the trusting heart, so lavish of its treasure, 
In simple faith, its earnest love bestowing without measure; 
These, more than lines and colors, made a picture, warm and bright, 
Of one whose face no more might cheer and bless my earthly sight.
 The nature, beautiful and pure, he carried to the skies, 
Has been trained by angel teaching, has been watched by seraph eyes. 
Dear boy! through this cold world thy earth-bound feet have trod; and now, 
Is the loving heart still thine? Hast kept that true and open brow?
THE OLD CHURCH.
There are certain old-fashioned people who find fault with the luxuriousness of our churches, and ascribe to the warmth and comfort, which contrast so strongly with the hardships of early times, the acknowledged sleepiness of modern congregations. For my part, I see no necessary connection between discomfort and devotion. My soul, at least, sympathizes so much with its physical adjunct, that, when the latter is uncomfortable, the former is never quite free and active.

Let me call to remembrance the church my childhood knew, with its capacious square pews, in which half the audience turned their backs upon the minister; the seats made to rise and fall, for the convenience of standing, and which closed every prayer with a clap of thunder; its many aisles, like streets and lanes; the old men's seats, and the queer but venerable figures that were seen in them,—some with black-silk caps to protect their bald heads from the freezing draughts of air from the porchless doors; the old women's seats, on the opposite side; the elevated row of pews round the sides of the church, and the envied position of certain little children who had an extensive prospect through the open pew-top within doors, and a view of the hay-scales and the town-pump through the window besides. Those windows, in a double row, with the gallery between,—how regularly I counted the small panes, always forgetting the number, to make the same weary task necessary every Sunday! The singing-seats, projecting from the central portion of the gallery, furnished me with another hebdomadal study, in large gilt letters of antique awkwardness, which so impressed themselves on my mind that I see them now. This was the golden legend: "BUILT, 1770. ENLARGED, 1795." I remember hearing a wag propose to add as another remarkable fact, "SCOURED, 1818."

Opposite to the singing-seats towered the pulpit, from which the clergyman looked down upon us like a sparrow upon the house-top. He seemed in perpetual danger of being extinguished by a huge sounding-board. Very earnestly I used to gaze at the slender point by which it hung suspended, and wished, if it must come down, that I might make the gilt ornament at the apex, resembling a vase turned upside down, my prize. Under the pulpit was a closet, which some one veraciously assured me was the place where the tithingman imprisoned incautiously playful urchins. The terrors of that dark, mysterious cell had little effect on my conduct, however, as I was not entirely convinced of the existence of any such lynx-eyed functionary.

The largest church in the county, it was, however, well filled, many of the congregation coming five and some even six miles, and remaining there through the noon intermission, which, on their account, was made as short as possible. But in winter the vast airy space had a peculiar and searching chill. No barn could be colder, except that the numerous footstoves made some little change in the air during service. The minister stood upon a heated slab of soap-stone. I used to watch this in its progress up the broad aisle and the pulpit stairs, under the arm of the boy from the parsonage, and the irreverent way in which he made his descent, in view of the assembly, after depositing his burden, was thus rebuked by an old lady who was always droll and quaint. "Why, Matthew, when you come down the pulpit stairs of a Sunday, you throw up your heels like a horse coming out of a stable-door."

Older grew the church, and colder; and if people then staid at home on Sunday afternoons, they had a better excuse for doing so than their successors can muster. The chorister, even, was frequently among the missing, but was charitably supposed to be subject to the ague. Efforts were made to prevail upon the elderly part of the parish to permit the introduction of stoves with long funnels. They scorned the enervating luxury! Their fathers had worshipped in the cold, and their sons might. But ah! how degenerate were the descendants of the noble old Puritan church-goers! The services curtailed to half their proper length, yet finding the patience of the listeners all too short! The degenerate descendants carried the day, however, the most bigoted of their opposers becoming disabled by rheumatism. The old sexton, resignation to inevitable evils being a lesson he had had much opportunity to learn, submitted with a good grace, though very much of opinion that fires in a church were an absurdity and a waste. The stoves were provided, and an uncommonly full attendance the next Sabbath showed the very general interest the matter had excited. How would it seem? Would any one faint?

There was by no means a superabundance of heat; there was something wrong, but the lack of warmth was a hundred-fold made up in smoke. No one could see across the church, and the minister loomed up, as if in a dense fog; all eyes were fountains of tears. At last the old sexton went with a slow and subdued step up to the pulpit, and, wiping his eyes, respectfully inquired, in a whisper, whether there was not a little too much smoke. This suggestion being very smilingly assented to, he proceeded to extinguish the fires, and for that day the services were not indebted to artificial warmth to promote their effect.

How sad are improvements in places to which our childish recollections cling! The gushing fulness of unchilled love is lavished even on inanimate and senseless things, in a happy childhood. How was my heart grieved when the old-fashioned meeting-house was converted into the modern temple! Time and decay had rendered the tall spire unsafe, yet its fall by force and premeditated purpose seemed a sacrilege. I felt affronted for the huge weathercock, reclining sulkily against a fence, no more to point his beak to the east with obstinate preference. I mourned over the broad, old-fashioned dial, on which young eyes could discern the time a mile off. The old sexton lived to see this change, and at the end of half a century of care under that venerable roof he went to his rest. The beloved minister, and many, many who sat with trustful and devoted hearts under his teachings, are gone to their reward. A board from the old pulpit, a piece of the red-damask curtain, and the long wished-for gold vase, are now in my possession.

"SOMETHING THAN BEAUTY DEARER."
You ask me if her eyes are fair, 
 And touched with heaven's own blue, 
And if I can her cheek compare 
 To the blush-rose's hue?
Her clear eye sheds a constant gleam 
 Of truth and purest love, 
And wit and reason from it beam, 
 Like the light of the stars above. 
Good-humor, mirth, and fancy throng 
 The dimples of her cheek, 
And to condemn the oppressor's wrong 
 Her indignant blush doth speak.
You ask me if her form is light 
 And graceful as the fawn; 
You ask me if her tresses bright 
 Are like the golden dawn?
Her step is light on an errand of love, 
 Scarce doth she touch the earth, 
And in graceful kindness doth she move 
 Around her father's hearth; 
And when to bless his child he bends, 
 His comfort and delight, 
The silver with her dark hair blends, 
 Like a crown of holy light.
A TALE
FOUND IN THE REPOSITORIES OF THE ABBOTS OF THE MIDDLE AGES.
Swept from his saddle by a low branch, Count Robert lay stunned upon the ground. The hunting-party swept on, the riderless steed galloping wildly among them. No man turned back; not one loved the Count better than his sport.

There came to the spot a man in a woodman's garb, yet of a knightly and noble aspect. He bent over the fallen man, and bathed his temples, turning back the heavy, clustering locks. The Count, opening his eyes, gazed on him at first without surprise; he thought himself at home, however he came there, so familiar was the face.

Then did the woodman embrace him with tears, crying, "My brother, O my brother! it is I! it is Richard!"

"Thou in England!" cried the Count. "Art thou mad?" And he frowned gloomily.

"Fear not for me," replied the exile, tenderly raising the Count from the ground.

A narrow path wound through the wood to a ruined hermitage. The outlaw here prepared a bed of leaves for the Count, laid him softly thereon, and went to seek some refreshment. His loved brother might revive, and yet smile kindly on the playmate of his youth, though under a ban.

When Richard returned, there followed him like a dog a horse of the North-country breed, shaggy, and in size not much greater than a stag-hound. Robert viewed him with surprise, and it seemed with derision.

"Despise not him who is able to bear thee out of the wood," said Richard. "Thou art faint; here is wine, and of no mean vintage."

Robert drank from the earthen bottle, and his eye grew brighter, yet looked it not the more lovingly on Richard. He ate right gladly of the store of the landless and penniless,—dried venison and oaten bread,—and was refreshed, yet thanked him not. Richard gave fragments to the neighing steed. He ate no morsel himself, nor tasted the wine. His heart was full to bursting.

"Tell me of home,—of—of our father," he said, at last, with deep, strong sobs.

"On the morrow, on the morrow," said Robert, disposing himself for sleep. "Thou wilt hear soon enough."

But Richard seized him wildly by the shoulder, and bade him tell the worst.

"Nay, then, if thou wilt know, he is dead. I, thy younger brother, am now thy superior."

"For that I care not. As well thou, as I, to sit in my father's seat. But oh! left he no blessing for me? Did he not at the last believe me the victim of calumny?—Alas! No word? Not one dying thought of Richard?"

"He died suddenly."

Richard wept long and bitterly, and when, with faltering tongue, he asked tidings of his betrothed, his face was covered; he saw not the guilty flush upon his brother's brow, for that he had spread a lying report of the exile's death.

"Would Bertha still brave the king's displeasure? Was she yet true to the unfortunate?"

"Bertha is a very woman. She hath forgotten the absent lover, and chosen another, and a better man."

"Who, who hath supplanted me?" cried Richard fiercely, and springing upon his feet.

"I tell thee not, lest thou wreak on him thy spite against thy faithless fair."

"Know that Bertha's choice, though a traitor, is safe from me, even were I, as I was, a man to meet a knight on equal terms."

His generous heart could not dream of fraternal treachery. And when his rival saw this, and that he suspected him not as yet, he smiled to himself, turned his face to the wall, and closed his eyes, if so be he might cut off further question. Soon, falling into slumber, he clenched his hands, and ground his teeth. The sleep of a traitor is ever haunted by uneasy dreams, and dark shadows of coming doom fell upon his spirit.

Richard watched till dawn. Sometimes he started up to walk to and fro, beating his bosom, and wringing his hands in agony. Anon he threw himself prostrate in the stupor of despair. At the first carol of birds in the forest, sleep surprised his weary senses, and the peace of the innocent settled upon his features.

Side by side lay the brothers, alike in form, alike even in feature. But in heart they bore no mark of the resemblance of kindred. Envy of the elder-born early possessed the soul of Robert, like a base fiend; first had it driven thence love, and lastly honor.

Does no one seek for the absent lord of the castle, while the weary hunters return to be his guests? Keeps no one anxious vigil, the live-long night? The unloving is not loved. But he hath a king beneath his roof; a king and lords of high degree sit at the morning board, and shall none but vassals be hospitably proud and busy?

Ladies of rank were there, and among them, pale and silent, sat Bertha, looking on the king, it seemed, with an upbraiding eye. An angry gloom sat upon his grimly compressed lips, and sadness was upon his brow; for kingly power was naught, since remorse could not undo a wrong done to one who no longer lived, and vengeance could not reach its absent object. Richard's innocence had come to light, and Robert, albeit he knew it not, was now the dishonored outlaw.

Ere the clock of the distant minster rung the hour of ten, the royal cavalcade wound from the gates of the castle. At the same hour Count Robert awoke, and saw that the sun was already very high. It shone upon the calm face of Richard, tempered with quivering shadows from the leafy canopy above.

"Up, brother Richard!" cried the Count; "thou wast ever a sluggard." And Richard, at his bidding, filled his hunting-pouch with provisions for the way, and went before, leading the little Northern nag, which the Count bestrode. He bore himself bravely under the weight of a rider whose feet nearly grazed the turf on each side.

Slowly they wound through the tangled wood. "Stay, I will lighten thy burden for thee," said Robert, "if thou hast not left the bottle behind. Here's to the fair Bertha. What, thou wilt not drink? Then thou hast resigned her;—she is not worth a thought. Thou wilt not peril thy life to see her again, the false one who careth not for thee. Now depart, and when the king's wrath is overpast, I will beseech him for thee. Leave thy cause in a brother's hands." But Richard went not back, though, when they came to the edge of the wood, they beheld the king's train advancing in the broad highway.

"Fly, Richard; escape while thou mayest!" cried Robert, yet offered he not the horse for the greater speed. "Found on English ground, thou diest a felon's death. Disgrace not thy family. Carest thou not for life?" he cried, pursuing Richard, who stinted not, nor stayed, at the sight of the king, but the rather hasted forward.

"What is life to me?" said Richard. "Let the king do with me as he will." He strode onward proudly, with folded arms, offering himself to the view of Edward, who as yet saw him not, or only as a forester.

"Halt at least that I may spur on and implore for thee," said Robert, for he hoped that he might deliver him a prisoner to some one in attendance, that he should not come to speech of the king.

With this wily purpose, he galloped forward. A shout arose, "The traitor! The traitor!" He was made prisoner by no gentle hands, and, at a nod from the king, found himself led away to the rear, but not far removed.

He looked about for Richard. Could he not yet wave him back? Should the king see that noble face, he must be moved to mercy, at least so far as to give him audience. The brothers know not yet that all is reversed. Robert sees a man in russet clothing kneel at the king's stirrup; he sees the royal hand extended to raise him; he sees many press forward eager to welcome the wanderer. He turns away, sick at the sight.

One look more. Bertha has thrown herself into the arms of his hated brother. He tears his beard; he curses his own natal day, and the stars that presided over his birth and destiny.

Yet must he look once more, though to an envious soul the sight of a brother's happiness is like the torment of purgatorial fire. Richard is standing with his hand extended towards him. He is pleading the cause of the mean and cowardly enemy who betrayed him. He pities and forgives him; he even loves him still, for is he not his brother? As the eyes of the king and of all the surrounding crowd are turned on him, burning shame subdues the warring passions that fill the heart of Robert, and a faint emotion of gratitude brings a tear to fall upon his hot cheek. Something of old, childish love awakes in his bosom, like dew in a dry land.

The king granted Richard's prayer, the more readily because his anger was smothered by contempt. The title and inheritance returned to the heir, who was worthy his ancient name. Robert, to the day of his death, lived on his brother's bounty, harmless, the rather that the king's decree had gone forth that in no case should he be Richard's successor, or inherit aught from him.

 

 

Note.—Here ends the tale, but by patient research we have discovered one verse of an ancient ballad, supposed to have the same tradition for its subject. It is preserved in a curious collection of fragmentary poetry, to be found in most private libraries, and, in its more ancient and valuable editions, in the repositories of antiquaries. It stands, in the modern copy which we possess, as follows:—

Richard and Robert were two pretty men; 
Both laid abed till the clock struck ten. 
Up jumps Robert, and looks at the sky; 
"Oho, brother Richard, the sun's very high! 
You go before, with the bottle and bag, 
And I'll come behind, on little Jack nag."
THE SEA.
"We sent him to school, we set him to learn a trade, we sent him far back into the country; but it was of no use, he must go to sea."—The Grandmother's Story.
A child was ever haunted by a thought of mystery, 
Of the dark, shoreless, desolate, heaving and moaning sea, 
Which round about the cold, still earth goes drifting to and fro, 
As a mother, holding her dead child, swayeth herself with woe. 
In all the jar and bustle and hurrying of trade, 
Through the hoarse, distracting din by rattling pavements made, 
There sounded ever in his ear a low and solemn moan, 
And his soul grew sick with listening to that deep undertone. 
He wandered from the busy streets, he wandered far away, 
To where the dim old forest stands, and in its shadows lay, 
And listened to the song it sang; but its murmurs seemed to be 
The whispered echo of the sad, sweet warbling of the sea. 
His soul grew sick with longing, and shadowy and dim 
Seemed all the beauty of the land, and all its joys, to him,— 
Its mountains vast, its forests old. He only longed to be 
Away upon the measureless, unfathomed, restless sea. 
Thither he went. The foam-capped waves yet beat upon the strand, 
With a low and solemn murmuring that none may understand; 
And he lieth drifting to and fro, amid the ocean's roar, 
With the drifting tide he loved to hear, but shall hear never more.
 And thus we all are haunted,—there soundeth in our ear, 
A low and restless moaning, that we struggle not to hear. 
Yet still it soundeth, the faint cry of the dark deeps of the soul,— 
Dark, barren, restless, as the sea which doth for ever roll 
Hither and thither, bearing still some half-shaped form of good, 
The flickering shadow of the moon upon the "moon-led flood." 
And ever, 'mid all the joys and weary cares of life, 
Through the dull sleep of sluggishness, and clangor of the strife, 
We hear the low, deep murmuring of that Infinity 
Which stretcheth round us dim and vast, as wraps the earth the sea. 
And in the twilight dimness, in silence and alone, 
The soul is almost startled by the power of its solemn tone. 
When we view the fairest works of Nature and of Art, 
They ever fill with longings, never satisfy, the heart; 
But, like the lines of weed and shells that stretch along the beach, 
And show how far the flowing tide and the high waters reach, 
They seem like barriers to hold back, like weedy lines, to show 
How far into this busy world the waves of beauty flow. 
Yet when sweet strains of music rise about us, float, and play, 
We almost dream these barriers of sense are broken away, 
And that the beauty bound before is floating round us, free 
As the bright, glancing waters of the ever-playing sea. 
And for a little moment, the spirit seems to stand 
With naked, wave-washed feet almost upon the strand. 
But when she stoops to reach the wave, the waters glide away, 
And whisper in an unknown tongue,—she hears not what they say.
FASHION.
Why is it that the introduction of a really graceful fashion is generally met with ridicule and opposition, while ugly modes are adopted with grave acquiescence and reverent submission?

"Seest thou not what a deformed thief this Fashion is?" "I know that Deformed; he goes up and down like a gentleman." Yes, we all know Deformed. When any of his family come to us, from England or France or any foreign country, we recognize the hideous brotherhood, and extend our welcoming hands; but Graceful must stay with us a long time to be greeted kindly, and her sisters from foreign parts are coldly looked upon, or dismissed at once.

To begin at the top,—"the very head and front of the offending." A gentleman goes into a fashionable hatter's, and the shopman, holding up for admiration a hat with a crown a foot high, of the genuine stove-pipe form, and a brim an inch wide, says, "This is the newest style, Sir." The gentleman walks home with the ugly thing on his head, but no one stares or laughs. 'Tis a new fashion, but all "take it easy." A year later, perhaps, the hatter shows him a thing with a brim a half an inch wider, but rolled up at the sides, and a crown of a much greater diameter at the top than where it joins the brim,—a specimen of the bell-crown. This is solemnly donned, and the wearer has the pleasure of knowing that the head-gear of all his friends is as hideous as his own. The inverted cone is worn with a sweet, Malvolio smile. And so "Deformed" has ruled the head of man for as many years as any of us can number, only ringing the changes, from one year to another, upon the three degrees of comparison of the word ugly.

But a change takes place; a light, graceful, low-crowned hat, with a brim wide enough for shelter or for shade, begins to appear as a fashion;—and how is it received? The clergyman thinks it would be very unclerical for him to wear it, though it may be as black, and is as modest, as the rest of his apparel. The young doctor timidly tries it on, and in his first walk meets the wealthy hypochondriac, his favorite patient, and the one who is trying to introduce him to practice, who seriously advises him, as a friend, not to wear that new-fangled thing,—if the poor hat had only been ugly, there would have been nothing bad in its new-fangled quality,—as all his respectable patients will leave him if he dresses so like a fool. The young lawyer gets one, because he heard an old lady speak of "those impudent-looking hats," and he is in hopes that impudence, which he understands is all-important in his profession, and which he is conscious of not possessing, may come with the hat. A lady goes out with her son, who is just old enough to have gained a coat, and is looking for his first hat. The mother has taste and judgment, and the youth has yet some unperverted affinity with graceful forms left, and so they choose and buy one of these comfortable and elegant chapeaux. Just before they reach home, they meet one of their best friends, a person whom the lady regards most kindly, and the young man admires and respects, and he greets him with, "Why, Tom! have you got one of those rowdy hats?" And so the stiff, stove-pipe monstrosity keeps its place, and the only pleasant, sensible, graceful, becoming hat that the nineteenth century has known, is called all sorts of bad names, and quiet gentlemen are afraid to wear it.

Has it not been the fate of the shawl, too, the most simple and elegant wrapper, and comfortable withal, that a man can throw around him, to be scouted and flouted?

Yes, Deformed! Come on next winter with a white surtout in your hand that must fit so tightly that your victims can but just screw themselves into it, with a stiff, square collar touching the ears, and seven capes, one over the other, "small by degrees and beautifully less," and all respectable gentlemen will accept it, and virtuously frown down, as dandies or rowdies, those who will not sacrifice their shawls to the ugly idol.

A GROWL.
I know it is generally considered decidedly boorish to utter complaints against the ladies. But I am for the present a bachelor, and in that capacity claim freedom of speech as my peculiar privilege. In virtue of my unhappy position, then, I proceed to utter the first of a series of savage growls, wishing the ladies to understand me as fully in earnest in this; that when I growl loud, I must be supposed to mean what I growl.

For a month past, single gentlemen of every description have suffered in common with other fancy stocks, and have remained hopelessly below par. Those nice, trim, poetical, and polite young beaux, who, when no great undertaking agitates the female mind, are treated with kindness, and sometimes with distinction, by young ladies of discretion, are now, as it were, ruthlessly thrust and bolted out of the pale of feminine society by an awful demon who reigns supreme,—the Genius of Dress-making. The other evening, I pulled sixteen different bell-handles, in a gentlemanly manner, without obtaining admission into any house for the purpose of making a call; and when I succeeded in making an entrance at the seventeenth door by falsely representing myself as the agent of a dry-goods dealer, with a large box of patterns under my arm, I found the ladies in close conference with three dress-makers, studying a fashion-plate with an assiduity worthy of a better cause. A friend of mine, who has hitherto enjoyed the privilege of dining every day with six ladies, and has derived from their society great pleasure and profit, informed me yesterday, with a tear in each eye, that he had left the house for ever, the conversation being always turned upon topics with which he is utterly unacquainted, and conducted in a language which is about as intelligible to him as the most abstruse Japanese or the most classic Law-Latin.

If we are so fortunate as to obtain, by any stratagem, admission to hall or anteroom, in the mansions of our fair friends, our olfactories are regaled with a fragrance which we instinctively associate with tailors' shops, and which, I am informed, does in fact arise from the contact of woollen substances with hot flat-irons. As we advance, our ears are greeted by the resounding clash of scissors. Entering upon the field of action, our eyes are dazzled by a thousand fragments of rich and brilliant hues, and our personal safety endangered by swiftly flying needles and unsuspected pins. Gossip is at an end, for the thread must be continually bitten off. Dancing is child's play, a folly of the past. The piano is converted into a table, or an ironing-board. No games can be suggested but Thread-my-needle, and Thimble-rig. No books are at hand but Harper, with the fashion-plate at the end; the newspapers of the day are cut into uncouth shapes; and conversation (when conducted in English) hangs the unsuccessful Bloomer reform upon the gibbet of ridicule.

Now, if we would prevent utter disunion in society, something like a compromise must be effected, and to the ladies belongs the laboring oar. I use a metaphor which implies that they must do something they are little accustomed to do; they must make some concession. We have done all we could do, and I will make one statement which will convince the world that we bachelors are not obstinate without good reason. I confess (though it is not without some slight degree of shame that I own it), that I have, during the last week, consumed the greater part of every day in ineffectual study, trying to perfect myself in the terminology of the science of Fashion. I have listened attentively, and have gathered into a retentive memory sundry technicalities; but in vain have I submitted these terms of a strange dialect to the strictest etymological research. In vain have I conversed upon this subject with the most intelligent dry-goods dealers. In learning the few idiomatic phrases they employ, I have experienced only the satisfaction which young students in Greek literature feel, when they have, with infinite labor, mastered the alphabet of that rich and copious language.

But there is hope. Experience tells us, this state of things cannot last for ever. A few weeks, and our sufferings shall be rewarded, our forbearance repaid. Then shall gay streamers, pendent from rejuvenated bonnets, float, as of yore, across our promenades, and on the shoulders of Earth's fairest daughters the variegated mantle be again displayed. The streets, now deserted by the fair, will ere long glitter with the brilliant throng, and our sidewalks be swept once more by the gracefully flowing silk. Taper fingers shall condescendingly be extended to us, the smile of beauty beam on us, and witty speech banish our resentful remembrance of incomprehensible jargon.

TO JENNY LIND,
ON HEARING HER SING THE ARIA "ON MIGHTY PENS," FROM "THE CREATION."
When Haydn first conceived that air divine, 
The voice that thrilled his inward ear was thine. 
The Lark, that even now to heaven's gate springs, 
And near the sky her earth-born carol sings, 
Poured on his ear a higher, purer note, 
And heavenly rapture seemed to swell her throat. 
To him, from groves of Paradise, the Dove 
Breathed Eden's innocence and Eden's love; 
And seraph-taught seemed the enchanting lay 
The Nightingale poured forth at close of day; 
For yet nor sin nor sorrow had its birth, 
To touch, as now, the sweetest sounds of earth. 
Yes! as upon his inner sense was borne 
The melody of that primeval morn, 
And all his soul was music,—O, to him 
The voice of Nature was an angel's hymn! 
 But was there, then, one human voice that brought 
Unto his outward ear his own rapt thought, 
In tones, interpreting in worthy guise 
The varied notes of Eden's melodies?— 
O, happier we! for unto us 'tis given 
To hear, through thee, the strains he caught from heaven.
  December 1, 1851.
MY HERBARIUM.
Poor, dry, musty flowers! Who would believe you ever danced in the wind, drank in the evening dews, and spread sweet fragrance on the air? A touch now breaks your brittle leaves. Your odors are like attic herbs, or green tea, or mouldy books. Your forms are bent and flattened into every ugly and distorted shape. Your lovely colors are faded,—white changed to black, yellow to dirty white, gorgeous scarlet to brick color, purple to muddy brown. Poor things! Who drew you from your native woods and brooks, to press you flat, and dry your moisture up, and paste you down helplessly upon your backs, such mocking shadows of your former grace and beauty?

Ah! sorrowfully do I confess it! It was I. In my early years I searched the woods and meadows, scaled rocks, forded bogs, and scrutinized each shady thicket, with murderous intent. I bore my drooping victims home, and sacrificed them relentlessly to science. With my own hand I turned the screw that crushed out all that was lovely and graceful and delicate about them. How I wearied myself over that flower-press! How anxiously I watched over the stiff stalks and shrivelled leaves,—all that was left! How perseveringly I changed and dried the papers, jammed my fingers between the heavy boards, and blistered my hands with that obstinate screw! And how cordially I hated it all! I liked the fun of gathering the flowers, the triumph of finding new specimens, and the excitement of hazardous scrambles; but as for the rest it was drudgery, which I went through only from a stern sense of duty. Now, thanks to the busy little fingers that passed over these leaves, I have a fund of amusement laid up for me; for every page has its story, and each mutilated flower is the centre of a beautiful picture. Here the ludicrous and the pathetic are so exquisitely blended, that I laugh with a regretful feeling at my heart, and sigh even when smiles are on my face. The first few pages are light and joyous, full of a child's warm impulses and ready zeal, and enlivened here and there by some roguish caprice. That was the time when, in my simplicity, I loved dandelions and buttercups, and could see beauty even in the common white-weed of the fields. Ah! here they are, arranged in whimsical positions,—Clover and Sorrel, Violets and Blue-eyed Grass, Peppergrass and Dock (O, how hard that was to press!), Mouse-Ear and Yarrow, Shepherd's Purse, Buttercups, and full-blown Dandelion, Succory, and Chickweed, and Gill-run-over-the-ground,—with their homeliest names written in sprawling characters, all down hill, beneath them. I did not aspire to botanical names in those days. I thought nothing was unfit for my new Herbarium. Such was my zeal, that I believe I should have filled it entirely in a few days, if I had not been counselled to make a judicious selection. I had a faculty for bringing home plants impossible to press, and insisting upon making the experiment. I slept for a week with my bed-post tilted up on a huge book, wherein reposed a water-lily, obstinately refusing to lie flat. All kinds of woody plants, too, were my delight, though they invariably came out of the press as they went in, except that the leaves were in every variety of unnatural position. I never grew weary, either, of gathering stately and graceful green ferns, and finding them all "cockled up," as the phrase went, when I got home. I believe I made some experiments on a horsechestnut blossom once; but as it is not to be found in my Herbarium, I am inclined to think they were unsuccessful. How happy children are with any new possession! I thought there never was any thing quite equal to my new book. All the girls had them, with neat marbled covers, and white paper within, and each one was determined to make hers the best of the whole. When pasting day came, there was an intense excitement. We all daubed our little fingers to our heart's content, and our faces too, as to that. I remember perfectly the sensation of smiling, after the paste stiffened. We spattered our desks, and pasted the wrong side of the flowers, and stuck the leaves together, and got every thing a little one-sided, and, in short, became so worried and heated and vexed, that we did not hunt for any more flowers for a long time after the first pasting day.

In the mean while my ideas had undergone a change. I had become much more ambitious. A hew page brings flowers of a higher order, and, beneath them, besides the common name, appears a sounding botanical title; ay, still more, the class and order are written in full. Poor things! How many of your species must have been pulled to pieces by inexperienced hands, to ascertain the exact number of stamens, and their relative positions! I feel, now, a tenderness for the shrinking, delicate wild flowers, that makes me hesitate even to pick them from their shady retreats; but then, such was my ardor for investigation, the more I loved them, and the more beautiful they seemed, the more eagerly I tore them to fragments. Let the ingenious student analyze bits of brass wire, and reduce to its simple elements as much gunpowder as he pleases, but I raise my voice against this wanton destruction of rare and beautiful flowers. No chemical process can ever restore them.

As I glance over this new page, I see a merry troop of little girls, crowding around their kind teacher, trying to restrain their superabundant spirits, and restless activity, till they may give them free scope in the woods. Passing up the street, they are joined by fresh recruits, who come dancing out of the houses, with baskets, and trowels, and tin boxes, and delightfully mysterious suppers packed away nicely, to be eaten in the most romantic place that can be found,—provided there is no danger of snakes, or ivy. Where they are going I should find it impossible to say, until I have consulted the new leaf just turned over. Here, side by side, are the wild Columbine and the cheerful little Bethlehem Star. They grew, I remember, upon Powder-House Hill, so named from the massive granite building upon its summit, which we never dared to go near, for fear of an explosion. The hill was rough, rocky, barren, and in some places quite steep. In the clefts of the rocks, generally far above our reach, the bright red columbines stood in groups, drooping their graceful heads. Some of the rocks were worn to a perfect polish by the feet of daring sliders. It was a dangerous pastime even to the most experienced. A loss of balance, a slight deviation from the beaten track, a trip in a hollow, or a momentary entanglement in your dress,—and you are lost! I declined joining in the diversion ever after the first attempt, which was nothing but a headlong plunge from top to bottom. But though I heroically stood aloof while the girls were enjoying the sport, and making the air ring with their laughter, I was sure, afterwards, to come upon the slippery places unintentionally, and take a slide whether I would or not. I had, I remember, a most unfortunate propensity for climbing and scrambling, choosing the worst paths, and daring the others to follow my lead on precarious footholds. It was unfortunate, because I seldom came forth from these trials unscathed. I was always tearing my dresses in clambering over fences, or bumping my head in creeping under. Where others cleared brooks with a light spring, I landed in the middle. I was sure to pick out spongy, oozy, slippery grass to stand upon, in marshy land, or was yet more likely to slump through over shoes in black mud. Banks always caved in beneath my feet, unexpectedly. Brambles seemed to enter into a conspiracy to lay violent hands on me, and hidden boughs lay in wait to trip me up. Moss and bark scaled off the trunks of fallen trees, bearing me with it when I was least on my guard, or the trunks themselves, solid enough to all appearance, crushed to powder beneath my unwary tread. Even the stone walls deserted me. I made use of one as a bridge, one day, to reach a golden cowslip that grew temptingly in a swamp; but a treacherous stone rolled off with me, and a perfect avalanche of huge rocks followed, splashing the muddy water all over me as I sat, helplessly, buoyed up by the tall grass. I regret to say, I forgot the cowslip.

THE OSTRICH.
Of the wild and wayward Ostrich, say, have ye never heard? 
Of the poor, distracted, lonely, outcast, and wandering bird? 
Which is not a bird of heaven, nor yet a beast of earth, 
But ever roveth, homeless,—a creature of strange birth. 
Wings hath it, but it flies not. And yet within its breast 
Are strange and sleepless drivings, so that it may not rest; 
Half-formed, half-conscious impulses, with its half-formed pinions given, 
Too strong for rest on earth, too weak to bear to heaven;— 
And madly it beats its wings, but vainly, against its side, 
For the light wind rusheth through them, mocking them in its pride. 
Then, distraught, it hurries onward, the gates of heaven shut, 
Flying from what it knows not,—seeking it knows not what. 
While in the parching desert, amid the stones and sand, 
Its stone-like eggs are lying, here and there, on every hand, 
It wanders on, unheeding; and, with funereal gloom, 
Trembles in every breeze each torn, dishevelled plume. 
And when, with startled terror, it sees its foes around, 
It strives to rise above them, but clingeth to the ground. 
Then on it madly rusheth, with idly fluttering wings; 
The stones in showers behind it convulsively it flings; 
Onward, and ever onward,—the fleetest horses tire,— 
But its strength grows less and less, their tramping ever nigher. 
The poor distracted thing! it feels its lonely birth; 
It may not rise to heaven, so it cometh to the earth; 
To the earth, as to a mother, since to the earth it must,— 
Its head in her bosom nestled, its eye veiled with her dust. 
But she will not receive it. From earth and heaven outcast, 
The Ostrich dies, as it lived, unfriended to the last.
 Of the wild and wayward Ostrich, say, have ye never heard? 
Of the poor, distracted, lonely, outcast, and wandering bird?
 But not alone it wandereth. My spirit stirs in me, 
With a sort of half-fraternal and drawing sympathy; 
This lonely, restless spirit, that would rise from the heavy ground 
To the sky of light and love that stretcheth all around. 
But, with all its restless longings, it too must earth-bound stay, 
And, with wings half formed for soaring, here hold its weary way, 
Hungering for food of heaven, feeding on dust and stone, 
While about it lie unheeded, as it hasteth on alone, 
Its deeds of good or evil, a fruitful mystery; 
But it presseth on, nor recketh what their event may be. 
And when doubt and fear assail it, it may not rise above 
To the glorious, peaceful height of fear-outcasting love; 
But something draws it downward, breathes of its lower birth, 
Prompts it to seek a refuge in the blindness of the earth. 
And it hides its head in earthliness; at least it will not see 
The blow it cannot ward off; and the foe it may not flee. 
But something softly whispers that these wings shall grow to soar— 
Heaven grant!—in the cloudless depths of love for evermore. 
It whispers that again these blinded eyes shall see; 
Heaven grant in their yearning gaze the long-sought home may be! 
It whispers each word and act shall to fruition spring; 
Heaven grant they may joy to man, and peace to the spirit bring!
 Of the wild and wandering Ostrich, say, have ye never heard? 
The type of the restless soul of man, the weary, wingless bird.
COWS.
I admire cows in their proper places. They are undoubtedly useful animals; some may think them handsome and graceful: this is, as yet, an unsettled question. They certainly figure pretty extensively in all sketches of rural scenery, and may, therefore, be considered as picturesque objects; but I think that on canvas they take to themselves beauties which they do not possess in actual life. I do not object to see them at a distance, quietly grazing in a meadow by the brink of a winding stream, and all that sort of thing, provided the distance is very great, and a strong fence intervenes. For I would have you know, that I am a delicate young lady of nervous temperament and keen sensibilities, and have a mortal dread of cows. I am not used to the customs of country life, which place this animal on a level with domestic pets, and when my brother asked me to pat the side of one of these great, coarse brutes, I screamed at the mere idea. For I should be extremely unwilling to provoke one of them, because I have been told that, when heated with passion, as these beasts often are, it sometimes happens that the powder-horns on top of their heads explode, and spread ruin and desolation around. People here bestow a vast deal too much consideration on these unpleasant animals, for they are often seen—that is, those of them that are troubled with weak eyes—walking along the streets with boards over their faces, as a protection from the rays of the sun. I don't believe that is the real reason of the thing, though my brother assures me that it is. I think, myself, that it is intended as a keen satire upon those young ladies who wear veils in the streets; but I never will yield my point. I will wear my veil, so long as I have a complexion worth protecting, and so long as there are gentlemen worth cutting. The Brighton Bridge Battery is a delightful promenade on a warm summer's day, it is so shady; but it is closed, I may say, every Wednesday and Thursday, to accommodate these detestable pets of the public. It seems, as my brother informs me, that the drovers, from humane considerations, are in the habit of driving their cattle over to Brighton, (when the weather is pleasant,) and back again on the next day, in order that their health may be improved by the sea-air which blows up Charles River. Now I think that when the cow takes precedence of the lady, and usurps, to the utter exclusion of the latter, the most delightful promenade in Cambridge, it is time the city authorities should look to it; and so I told my brother. He considered for a moment, and then advised me not to bear it any longer, but to go upon Brighton Bridge, in spite of the cows, and assert my independence. I followed his advice, as I always do, and, on one fine afternoon, took advantage of the pleasant weather to indulge in a solitary walk in that direction. As I was sauntering along on the wooden sidewalk, gazing at the noble ships which lay moored by their gaff-topsails to the abutments of the bridge, and viewing the honest sailors as they promenaded up and down the string-ladders at the command of their captains, my fears were aroused by a distant commotion. I hastily turned and looked over the railing into the street. A whole drove of infuriated cows, urged on by two fiendish boys and a savage dog, was rapidly approaching me from the Cambridge side. What should I do? I was too much fatigued to run, and I had never learned to swim. My plans were hastily formed. Flinging my red silk visite and sky-blue parasolette into the water, lest the gay colors should still more enrage the wild animals, I jumped over the outside railing towards the river, and hung by one arm over the angry flood during a moment of speechless agony! On they came, with lightning speed, in a whirlwind of dust. A rapid succession of earthquakes—bellowings—groans,—and all was over. I was safe. On inspection of the footmarks, I felt quite sure that some of them must have approached within ten yards of me, and only two railings had intervened between me and their fury.

An honest tar from one of the men-of-war employed in unloading coal at Willard's Wharf took the captain's gig, and made for my parasol and visite as they floated away, and returned them with the very unintelligible remark, that I'd "better not clear the wreck next time unless it blew more of a breeze."

THE HOME-BEACON.
By Elkton wood, where gurgling flood 
 Impels the foamy mill, 
Where quarries loom, in solemn gloom, 
 A mansion crowns the hill.
A pharos true, light ever new 
 Streams through its friendly pane, 
To guide and greet benighted feet 
 Which thread the winding lane.
Lofty and lone, that light has shone, 
 Alike o'er green or snow, 
Since first a pair their nest built there, 
 Two hundred years ago.
Now, as we walk, with pleasant talk 
 To cheer the dismal way, 
That light shall tell of marriage-bell, 
 Of moon and merry sleigh.
The ancient home to which we come 
 These scenes revealed one night; 
As the beacon true, so old, yet new, 
 Flung wide its cheery light.
Go back threescore long years, or more: 
 Old Time the latch shall lift, 
And, from his urn, once more return 
 The home of love and thrift.
A noble sire, with nerves of wire, 
 Warm heart, and open hand,— 
A worthy dame, nor shrewd, nor tame,— 
 Lead forth the phantom band;
Three girls, three boys, with fun and noise, 
 Next gather round the hearth; 
Reenter, then, dear friends, again 
 All full of life and mirth.
"My pretty nuns, 't is late! My sons, 
 Bring out the 'Sliding Car.' 
For one fair bride, you all must ride 
 The snows both fast and far."
First darts away the bridegroom gay, 
 Nor waits the well-aimed jest: 
To shed and stall they follow, all, 
 To speed their sire's behest.
In full array, the spacious sleigh 
 Glides through the pillared gate: 
Each prancing steed, straining to lead, 
 Draws no unwilling mate.
Full moon and bright loops up the night 
 Above the starry sky. 
Runner and heel, well shod with steel, 
 Cut sharply as they fly.
Along they go, o'er sparkling snow, 
 Shrill bells to song oft ringing; 
By oak and birch, to Gladstone church 
 A bridal party bringing.
On time-worn walls the moonbeam falls, 
 And silvers o'er the spire, 
While diamond-pane and giddy vane 
 Repeat the heavenly fire.
From lofty tower to maiden's bower, 
 And wide o'er hill and dell, 
Of earthly heaven, to mortals given, 
 Sweet chimes the marriage-bell.
With open book, and solemn look, 
 All robed in priestly lawn, 
The Rector stands,—but counts the sands, 
 Right willing to be gone!
(The evening mail and nut-brown ale, 
 His pipe and rocking-chair, 
Are waiting long, while the bridal throng 
 Still lingers unaware.)
An ancient gloom fills all the room, 
 And dims the lamps above, 
Though wall and aisle in verdure smile, 
 Through wreath and Christmas grove.
By branching pines and graceful vines, 
 Slow glides the youthful pair 
To the altar green, with brow serene, 
 And kneel together there.
Soft breathes the vow, responsive now, 
 In calm but earnest tone. 
The wedding-ring, strange, mystic thing! 
 Fast binds the twain in one.
The solemn word no longer heard, 
 With chastened steps and slow, 
And heart in heart, no more to part, 
 To "Home, sweet Home," they go.
Fresh now, again, o'er snowy main, 
 The winged steeds return: 
On roughening rock, with shriek and shock, 
 The flashing runners burn.
O'er cradling drift, secure though swift,— 
 Now smooth, now rough, the track,— 
The furious sleigh devours the way, 
 As lash and harness crack.
Through furs and wool, the air, so cool, 
 Is felt or feared no more; 
Though gay the steeds with icy beads, 
 And their flanks are frosted o'er.
A fitful light, scarce yet in sight, 
 Gleams through the opening wood: 
Ah! now they come to their hill-side home, 
 In merry, merry mood.
Four lovely girls, a string of pearls, 
 Are found in place of three: 
Four daughters fair are gathered there 
 Around the Christmas-tree.
As roars the fire, their loving sire 
 A warmer welcome deals; 
And, stooping low, on one fair brow 
 His heart's adoption seals.
A dearer bliss, a mother's kiss, 
 Awaits the blushing bride: 
One look above! then smiles of love 
 Express her joy and pride.
Once more good cheer removes the tear, 
 Returns the joyous smile; 
Soon laughter, poured around the board, 
 Rings through the spacious pile.
While dance and song employ them long, 
 Steals in the cold, gray dawn! 
Back to your urn, ye phantoms, turn, 
 And vanish o'er the lawn.
Stern, though in tears, with Fatal shears, 
 Time scattered all those pearls! 
They fell, unstrung, old graves among; 
 O'er all the snow-wreath curls!
Yet shines that light from lattice bright, 
 Wide o'er the grass, or snow; 
Still all the room its rays illume, 
 As when, so long ago,
Its arrowy star recalled the car 
 Then winding round the wood, 
And lime-rock gray threw back the ray 
 Across the rapid flood.
Though cold each form, their love, still warm, 
 From hearth and lattice glows: 
Hearts kind and dear yet linger here, 
 And bid us to repose.
The skies are dark! No moonbeams mark 
Or wall, or traveller's way: 
O'er rock and wood thick storm-clouds brood, 
 And doubts our steps delay.
No beacon-light yet cheers the night: 
 How gloomy grows the hour! 
Ah! there it shines, in lance-like lines, 
 Sharp through the misty shower.
Shine on, fair star, through storms, afar! 
 Still bless the nightly way! 
Always the same, a vestal flame, 
 Love shall maintain thy ray.
THE FOURTH OF JULY.
It was the anniversary of our Glorious Fourth. The evil genius who specially presides over the destinies of unoffending college boys put it into the heads of five of us to celebrate the day by an excursion by water to Nahant Beach. The morning was delightful,—the cool summer air just freshening into a steady and favoring breeze, the sun tempered in his ferocity by an occasional cloud above us, the sea calm and pleasant—and all that sort of thing, you know—just what you want on such occasions,—and we set sail from Braman's, resolved to have "a jolly good time." I can't describe our passage down. It was altogether too full of fun to be written on one sheet. Suffice it to say, we laughed, and sang, and joked, and ate, and drank ('t was when we were young), and so on, all the way, and in fact I felt rather disappointed at arriving so soon as we did at our destined port. Here new pleasures awaited us, in the shape of acquaintances unexpected and unexpecting, rides on the beach, bowling, and loafing in general,—much too rich to be described here and now. But there is an end to all sport, and ours came quite too soon. The shadows had begun to lengthen considerably before we thought of starting on our return, and certain ominous indications in the heavens above us warned us, that, as our passage homewards was not by land, further delay was unadvisable.

Dolefully we set our sail, and made for Boston Harbor. We began to feel the reaction which always follows a season of extreme joviality, and our spirits were down. Our chief wit, Tom B——, who had before kept us in a perpetual roar all the way, sat moody and desponding, and answered gruffly every question put to him; speaking only when spoken to, and then in monosyllables rarely used in polite circles. Our other joker, second only to Tom, the above named, having amused us during the whole day by long yarns spun out from a varied experience and a rich imagination, betook himself to slumber, and tried to dream that he was safe home again. The rest of us performed our duties about the boat in gloomy silence, looking occasionally with some anxiety at the clouds gathering slowly over our heads, but keeping our opinions within our own breasts. I had no apprehension of danger, for nothing indicated a gale; in fact, the breeze was gradually deserting us. All that was to be feared was a calm, steady rain, which, visiting us at a distance of several miles from home, and late at night, promised any thing but an agreeable conclusion to our day's excursion. At last it came. First, a heavy drop, then a few more, and then a regular, straight, old-fashioned pour.

Our sail hung motionless, and we seemed to stand still and take it. Our companions were soon roused from their abstraction by the very unpleasant circumstances, and we hastily took counsel together.

"Unship the mast," says Tom, "and over with your oars."

We obeyed our captain sulkily, and soon were moving on again. We pulled away for an hour or so, drenched with the rain, which seemed to come down faster than ever, and were about as miserable and down-cast a pack of wretches as ever lived; for there is nothing like a good ducking (to use the common expression) to take the life and spirit out of a man, not to mention the other discomforts that attended our situation.

Silently we rowed, and not a sound was heard above the plashing of the rain upon the surface of the sea, and the regular stroke of the oars.

"It's very strange that we don't reach old Point Shirley," says Tom, who had been on the look out for this landmark during the last half-hour.

"Very strange," said we, and pulled away as before.

Thus passed another half-hour in silent, ceaseless occupation, when, from the mere force of habit, I dipped my hand over the boat's gunwale, with the hope of cooling my blistered palm in the salt water. Judge of my surprise, when I found my hand immersed in thick black mud.

"By Jove, fellows," cried I, "we're floored!"

There was no mistaking the fact; we were aground. At that instant the moon burst out from between the drifting clouds, and, as if in derision, threw a streak of light over our melancholy position. There we were, high and dry on a bank of mud, a scooped furrow on each side of us attesting the frantic efforts of our oarsmen to get a headway, and a long wake, ten feet in extent, marking our distance from the sea behind us. Such was our position as the moon revealed it to us. We looked dolefully in one another's faces for three minutes; then a grim smile gradually stole over Tom's expressive countenance, as he slowly ejaculated, "Point Shirley it is!" when the ludicrous side of the matter seemed to occur to each of us simultaneously, and we indulged ourselves with a roar of laughter,—the first since we had left Nahant.

Of course, nothing could be done under the circumstances; but we must wait patiently for the rising of the tide to float us off. So we sat there in our wet garments until the dead of night, when our boat gradually lifted herself off and we started again, and finally arrived at Braman's early in the morning.

The moral of this tale may be summed up in a single word,—Temperance.

FROM THE PAPERS OF REGINALD RATCLIFFE, ESQ.
In college I was the "Illustrious Lazy." In my professional studies and avocations, I have been so hard driven, in order to make up for four idle years, that I am wasted almost to a shadow, and fears are entertained that I shall wholly vanish into thin air. My physician talks gravely about my having exhausted my nervous energy, and sends me to Ratborough, as the place of all others the most favorable for entire intellectual repose. I am living with an old aunt, Tabitha Flint, who was wont to rock me, and trot me, and wash my face, in my helpless infancy, and can hardly yet be convinced that I have outgrown such endearing assiduities in the twenty-five years that have intervened. I let her pet me, so far as I find it convenient, and, indeed, farther, because I feel grateful for the kind feelings of which I am the object.

There is another personage in the household, who probably thinks that in the exuberant kindness of my aunt I have a full average of civility, without the least interest on her part. Do not for a moment imagine that I am piqued at her insulting indifference of manner towards a young man who (I beg you to believe) is not wholly without claim to a glance of approbation now and then from a lady's eye. You must not suppose I care at all about the matter. But as I have not even a book allowed me to take up my thoughts, my curiosity fixes itself strangely upon this silent, sulky, meditative little person, who takes about as much notice of me as of the figure of Father Time over the clock.

What can such a body have to think about the livelong day that is so absorbing that all one's bright thoughts, and one's most whimsical sallies, pass without notice? Should I see her once move a muscle of her very plain, doggedly inexpressive, provokingly composed phiz, I should jump up and cry, "Bo!" with surprise.

She vanishes several hours at a time, and I hear her humming to herself, sometimes in one room, sometimes in another. I wish I knew how she amuses herself, for I find self-amusement the hardest drudgery I ever tried. I could stamp, I am so impatient of doing nothing but lounge about; I am as snappish as a chained cur, as cross as a caged bear. And while I gnaw my nails, and stretch, and yawn, I hear that contented, bee-like murmur, and now and then a light, rapid step on the stairs, or about rooms which I do not frequent. What can she find to be so busy about, the absurd little person? how can she be so happy in this dull house alone?

There is a piano, but as silent as she is. I do not see her wince, though I drum upon the keys with most ingenious discords, and sing false on purpose as loud as I can bellow. I will not ask her if she can play; she can have no ear at all, or she would box mine in self-defence.

There is somebody, by name Flora, who is looked for daily by stage-coach. "Flory," says my aunt, "sings like a canary-bird, and plays a sight,"—and at sight too, it seems. This Miss Flora will be found to possess a tongue, I hope, and the disposition to give it exercise. I do not know certainly that Miss Etty—By the way, what is her real name? I won't condescend to ask any question about her. But really, I wish I knew whether it is Mehitable. Perhaps Henrietta. No, no, that is too pretty a name; I shall call her Little Ugly.

Hark! I have two or three times heard a very musical laugh in the direction of the kitchen. Heigh-ho! How can any mortal laugh in Ratborough! Having nothing better to do, I will go and see who this very merry personage may be. I will inquire into this gay outbreak, in a land of stupidity. Hark, again!—how refreshing! I must and will know what caused such a gush of mirth. Irish humor, perhaps, for Norah is laughing, after her guttural fashion, too.—

As I popped my head into the kitchen, Little Ugly was just vanishing at the opposite door. I could not make Norah tell me what Miss Etty put under her arm, as she looked over her shoulder at me, and darted out of sight. O my noisy boots! I might as well wear a bell round my neck.

Stage-wheels are rattling up the road. Now they run upon the grass before the door. I rush in undignified haste to the window. Shall I—will I—go and help this long-expected Miss Flora to alight? No,—for I see forty boxes on the coach-top. A very handsome girl, really! I will get out a blameless dickey,—if such there be. First impressions are important. I wish my hair was cut!

I hear my aunt coming to inform me of Flora's arrival. I shall be hugely surprised! Humph!—will it be worth while to trouble myself about the lop-eared dickey? Little Ugly will be amused, if I do. She can laugh, it seems. I had thought there was no fun in her mental composition. Yet I have imagined a glimmer or so in her eyes, when she thought I was not looking at them, and the shadow of a dimple in her cheek now and then.

Instead of Adonizing, I will set my long locks on end, and don my slipshod slippers. "Yes, Aunt; I hear, good lady! I will presently arrive, to make my bow to Little Handsome."

Journal, Sept. 23d. Truly, the presence of Miss Flora Cooper makes Willow Valley a new place. At least six hours are taken from the length of the days, though I have given up my afternoon slumber, and play chess and backgammon instead of drumming on the table or piano. Now am I relieved from that tedious companion, my own self. I never liked him very well; I had rather do any thing than have a sober talk with a serious personage, who always takes me to do for not making more of him. He scolds me, just as a stay-at-home wife lectures a gay husband, who never returns to his better half when he finds any thing to amuse him abroad. Good-by, old fellow; I have found better company than your rememberings or hopings; to wit, Miss Flora Cooper, alias Little Handsome, alias Aunt Tabby's Canary.

The first day or two after her arrival, Miss Flora pouted at me. I was exceedingly well amused, making all the saucy speeches I could think of, in the pure spirit of mischief, and taking no notice of her tossing her pretty head, and turning her back upon me. Finding that her displeasure was not producing any particular effect upon the object of it, I imagine the indignant beauty begins to plot a different revenge on me. "Ha, ha! Miss Flora! It is not because you like me better than you did, that you are all smiles, and grace, and sunshine. I shall not flatter you the more, I am determined. I am on my guard. You shall never boast of me on your list of obsequious admirers. No, no, Little Handsome! I am no lady's man, and never was flirted withal in my life. I defy your smiles, as stoutly as your frowns. I like your pretty face; yes, it is exceedingly beautiful, as far as form and coloring go to make up the beauty of a face. And the play of the features,—yes, very lively and pretty, only too much of it. You should not smile so often; and I am tired of your pretty surprise, your playful upbraidings, and the raps of your fan. I want more repose of feature, Little Handsome. Now, what a contrast you and sedate Miss Etty present! Ah, very good! I am glad you have given up following Little Ugly out of the room the moment we rise from table. You sit down to your tiny basket, and demurely take out something that passes for work. I don't see you do much at it, however. I give you warning that I never hold skeins to be wound, not I. I will not read aloud; so you need not offer me that 'Sonnet to Flora,' in manuscript, nor your pet poet in print. We will talk; it is a comfort to have my wit appreciated, after wasting so much on my aunt, who cannot, and Miss Etty, who will not understand. I am glad to have a chance to speak, and to hear a human voice in answer. I like especially to rattle on when any nonsense will do. Chat is truly agreeable when one's brains are not severely taxed to keep it going."

Sept. 24th. Charming little Canary! I have spent the forenoon with her at the piano. I like her playing when she does not attempt my favorite tunes. It must be confessed she is apt to vary somewhat, and not for the better always. Her singing,—Aunt Tabitha well describes it as that of a canary; sweet and liquid, and clear, and sustained, but all alike. Her throat is a fine instrument; I shall teach her to use it with more expression and feeling. We will have another lesson to-morrow.

I thought, though, there was a shadow over her face when I called it practising. Etty's eyes met mine at the moment, a rare occurrence. What was her thought? One cannot read in her immovable face.

Evening. I am booked for a horseback ride with Little Handsome to-morrow morning. How did she make me offer? I did not mean to. All country girls ride, I believe. I often see Miss Etty cantering through the shady lanes all by herself. I saw the bars down, at the end of the track through the wood, one day. I immediately concluded that Little Ugly had paced off that way, that I need not see her from my window. I put the bars up again, and lay in wait behind the bushes. Soon I heard her approaching. I come forward as she comes near, on that rat-like pony of hers, who holds his head down as if searching for something lost in the road. I stand in doubt whether to laugh at her predicament, or advance in a gentlemanly manner to remove the obstacle I had put in her way. When lo! the absurd little nag clears it at a bound, and skims away over the green track like a swallow, till he vanishes under the leafy arch. I am left in a very foolish attitude, with mouth and eyes wide open.

Now this independent young lady shall be at liberty to take care of herself, with no officious interference of mine; I will not invite her to join us to-morrow morning, as I intended. I wonder if any horses are to be procured that are not rats. I hope Miss Flora knows enough to mount her pony, for I am sure I do not know how to help her. Whew! I hope we shall meet with no disasters! I feel certain Little Handsome would scream like a sea-gull, pull the wrong rein, tangle her foot in the stirrup or riding-skirt, faint, fall, break her neck—O horrors! Will not the dear old Aunt Tabitha forbid her going?

What a well-proportioned and ladylike figure it was, now I think of it! How gracefully she sat upon her flying Dobbin!

Sept. 25th. Rainy. Glad of it. Breakfast late. Miss Etty did not appear, having been up some hours, I imagine. What for, I wonder? What can she be about? One thing pleases me in her. If Aunt Tabitha wants any little attention, a needle threaded, or a dropped stitch taken up, Miss Etty quietly comes to her aid. It is so entirely a matter of course, the old lady only smiles, but any service from Flora calls forth an acknowledgment; it being a particular effort of good nature, and generally the fruit of a direct appeal. Miss Etty talks more than she did, too. While I am talking nonsense with Little Handsome, I hear her amusing my good aunty, and I catch a few words, her utterance having a peculiar distinctness, and the lowest tones being fine and clear, like those of a good singer on a pianissimo strain. It is a peculiarly ladylike articulation; was she born and bred in Ratborough, I wonder? She never speaks while we are singing. Does she like music, then? I asked her once, but what sort of answer is "Yes!" to such a question? And that is all I elicited.

Music again, the forenoon occupation. Miss Flora does not like being criticized, I find. One must not presume to set her right in the smallest particular. Singers are proverbially irritable! I am not certain I could belong to a glee-club, and never get cross or unreasonable. I hate to be corrected; but I hate more to be incorrect. I could give Canary a hint or two now and then that would be serviceable, if she would permit it. I have no right, however, to take it upon me to instruct her, and it puts her in a pet. She laughed it off, but I saw the mounting color and the flashing glance. I am an impudent fellow, I suppose. Honest, to boot. I think she need not take offence at what was intended as a friendly help. I am no flatterer, at least. Really, I am hurt that I might not take so trifling a liberty in behalf of my favorite song. I'll walk off as often as she sings it. Can her temper be perfectly good? And yet, one could not expect—I ought not to be surprised. Yet I can't help thinking, suppose—just suppose I had a right to find fault,—suppose I were a near friend,—would she bear it then? Supposing she were my companion for life—Humph! that startles one,—was I near thinking of it in earnest? She is beautiful; I should be proud of her abroad. But at home,—at home, where there should be confidence, would there not be constraint? Must no improvement ever be suggested, because it implies imperfection? I hope none of my friends will ever be on such terms with me; if I am touchy like a nettle, may they grasp me hard, and fear me not.

Sept. 26th. This little sheet of water in front of the house has the greatest variety of aspects; its face is like a human face, full of varying expressions. A slight haze made it so beautiful just before sunset, I took my chair, and put it out of the window upon the grass, then followed it, and sat with it tipped back against the house, close by the window of one of those mysterious rooms where Miss Etty immures herself. I heard the Canary say in a scolding tone, "I should think you might oblige me; it is such a trifle to do, it is not worth refusing. Why should you care for him!"

No answer, though I confess my ears were erected to the sharpest attitude of listening. I was wholly oblivious of myself, or I should have taken myself away, as in honor bound.

"Won't you now, Etty? I'll only ask for one of our old duets, just one."

"No, Flora," said Little Ugly, coldly enough.

"Why not?" No answer.

"To be sure, he might hear. He would find out that you are musical. What of that? Where is the use of being able to sing, to sing only when there's nobody to listen?"

"I sing only to friends. I cannot sing, I have never sung, to persons in whom I have no confidence."

"Afraid! What a little goose!"

"Not afraid, exactly."

"I don't comprehend, I am sure."

"I do not expect you should."

"I never did understand you."

"You never will." Silence again.

Flora tuned up, and, of all tunes, she must needs hum my song. I was on my feet in a moment to depart, when I heard the clear tones of Etty's voice again, and stood still, with one foot advanced.

"Flora, you should sharp that third note in the last line."

Flora murdered it again, with the most atrocious, cold-blooded cruelty. I almost mocked the sound aloud in my passion.

"I do not tell you to vex you, only I saw that Mr. Ratcliffe—"

"You need not trouble yourself about his opinion."

"I knew you would not like it, if I told you of a mistake. But I supposed you would rectify it, and I should have done you a kindness, even against your will."

"And I to hate you for it, eh?"

"If you can."

"Indeed I cannot, Etty, for you are my very best friend. But you are a horrid, truth-telling, formidable body. Why not let me sing on, my own way? I don't thank you a bit. I had rather sing it wrong, than be corrected. It hurts my pride. I think people should take my music as they find it. If it does not please them, they are not obliged to ask me to sing. One note wrong can surely be put up with, if the rest is worth hearing. I shall continue to sing it as I have done, I think."

"No,—please don't!"

"If I will mend it when I think of it, will you sing a duet?"

"Yes, though it will cost me more than you know."

"Poh!" And Flora sang the song, without accompaniment. The desired sharp rung upon my ears, and set my nerves at rest.

"Bravo! Encore!" I cried, beneath the window, and was pelted with peach-stones.

I wonder when this duet is to come off.

Sept. 27th. Have not stirred from the house. But I have not heard any voice but Flora's. She has been uncommonly amiable and fascinating, and I—am I not rather bewitched? I cannot keep my resolution of not being flirted with. I cannot be wise, and reserved, and indifferent. Am I trifling? Or am I in earnest? Indeed I don't know. I only know I am constantly at the side of Little Handsome, without knowing how I came there. She makes me sing with her, ride with her, walk with her, at her will, and as if that was not enough for one day, to test her power over me, to-night she made me dance with her. And now I feel like a fool as I think of Etty playing a waltz for us, at Flora's request, and giving me a long, serious look as I approached the piano to compliment her playing. I could not utter a word. I answered her gaze with one as sober, and more sad, and came away to my room, to have some talk with my real self. Now for it.

Says I to Myself, "A truce to your upbraidings, you old scold; tell me at once how you find yourself affected towards this charming little Flora."

Says Myself, "There are no tastes in common between her and me."

Says I, quickly, "Music!" and triumphed a moment or two.

But the snarling old fellow asked whether I liked her singing, or her flattery? For his part, he thought we both liked to hear our own voices, and agreed in nothing else. Taste, indeed! when I would not let her sing a song I cared a fillip for.

In short, my self-communion ended in some very sage resolutions. I feared the beautiful head with the shining curls was somewhat vacant. And the heart,—was that empty likewise? Or was that hidden cell the home of all the loveliest affections, the firmest and purest faith and motive, every thing that should be there to rule the life—and—my picture on the wall? A question this.—Does she love me? "O yes!" answered vanity. "O no!" said good sense, "not at all. If your picture is in her heart, it is one of a whole gallery. Don't be a fop. It is not your character. Don't let Flora make a fool of you."

And I resolved—

Sept. 27th. A very dull day. "You are as sober as a judge," said Flora at breakfast. I caught Etty's eye,—but it said nothing. Aunt Tabitha, who yesterday evidently thought me in desperate case, and once inquired about my income very significantly, now suspected a quarrel between Flora and me. I was embarrassed, and overturned the cream. "No great loss," said Etty, seeing that I was chagrined. "As easy made up as a lovers' quarrel," said Aunt Tabitha. Silly old woman! No, silly young fellow! Flora has revenged herself on me as she meant to do, for defying her power. She has turned my head; made me act like a simpleton. But "Richard's himself again," and wiser than he was.

P.M. I endeavored to talk more with Miss Etty, that the change in my manner might be less observed. It was all natural that I should be as grave as a judge when I addressed myself to so quiet a member of society. She seemed to divine my object, and sustained the dialogue; I never knew her to do it before. It is not diffidence, it seems, that has been the cause of this reserve; I was the more diffident of the two, failing to express my thoughts well, from a hurry and uncertainty of mind which I am not often troubled withal. It was partly astonishment, in truth, that confused me. Little Ugly and I actually exchanging ideas! I shall call her Little Ugly still, however, for I could not make her look at me as she spoke, nor answer my wit by a change of countenance.

Sept. 28th. Little Handsome cannot be convinced that the flirtation is over,—absolutely at an end. She alternately rails at my capricious solemnity, and pretends to be grieved at it. I can see that nothing but my avoidance of a tete-a-tete is my safety. Should the sentimental tone prevail, and tears come into those beautiful eyes, I am a gone man. At my earnest request, (I have grown humble or bold enough to ask a favor,) Miss Etty has brought, or rather dragged, her work-basket into the parlor. A great basket it is, so great, that I imagine in her own apartment she gets into the middle of it bodily. I sat down to watch the motions of her adroit little digits in darning stockings, and mending homely garments. I imagined, rather than saw, a humorous gleam in her eye, as I did so, and there was certainly a slight contraction of her mouth in length, as if to counteract an inclination of the muscles to move in the opposite direction.

Flora fluttered about the room like a bright-hued butterfly, pausing a moment at a window or a bookcase, or resting awhile to play a few capricious notes on the piano, and sometimes coming to view Miss Etty's employment, as if it were a branch of industry she was unacquainted with, and curious about.

The maples are turning red already. The setting sun threw a glorious light through their tinted foliage, and the still bosom of the lake reflected it in a softened, changeable hue of mingled crimson and silver. Flora was standing at the door. I somehow found myself there also; but I talked over my shoulder to Aunt Tabitha about potatoes.

"I have a fancy for a walk round the pond," said Flora. After a pause, she looked at me, as much as to say, "Don't you see, you monster, it is too late for me to go alone?"

"Miss Flora, I will second your wish, if you can drum up a third party," said I, point-blank.

Flora blushed, and pouted for a moment, then beckoned to Little Ugly, who disobligingly suggested that the grass would be wet. It so happened there was no dew, and Flora convinced her of the fact by running in the grass, and then presenting the sole of her shoe for her inspection. Miss Etty, her ill-chosen objection being vanquished, went for her bonnet, and we set forth, Miss Flora's arm in mine as a matter of course, and Miss Etty's in hers, save where the exigencies of the woodland path gave her an excuse to drop behind. A little boat tied to a stump, suggested to Flora a new whim. Instead of going round the pond, which I now began to like doing, I must weary myself with rowing her across. I was ready enough to do it, however, had not Miss Etty quietly observed that the pond was muddy, and the boat unseaworthy. Flora would not have yielded to twenty feet of water,—but mud! She sighed, and resumed my arm. I, offering the other to Miss Etty in so determined a way, that she could not waive accepting it, marched forward with spirits rising into high glee and loquacity. Presently, feeling a sudden irritation at the feather-like lightness with which Little Ugly's fingers just touched my elbow, as if she disdained any support from me, I caught her hand and drew it through my arm, and when I relinquished it, pressed her arm to my side with mine, thinking she would snatch it away, and walk alone in offended dignity. Whether she was too really dignified for that, or took my rebuke as it was intended, I know not, but she leaned on my arm with somewhat greater confidence during the remainder of our walk, and now and then even volunteered a remark. Before we finished the circumambulation of the pond, she had quite forgotten her sulky reserve, and talked with much earnestness and animation, Flora subsiding into a listener, with a willing interest which raised her in my estimation considerably.

And now that I am alone in my room, and journalizing, it behooves me to gather up and record some of those words, precious from their rarity. Flora and I, in our merry nonsense, had a mock dispute, and referred the matter to Miss Etty for arbitration.

"Etty, mind you side with me," said Flora.

"Be an impartial umpire, Miss Etty," said I, "and you will be on my side."

Little Ugly was obliged to confess that she had not heard a word of the matter, her thoughts being elsewhere, intently engaged.

"I must request you to excuse my inattention," she said, "and to repeat what you were saying."

"The latter request I scorn to grant," said I, "and the former we will consider about when we have heard what thoughts have been preferred to our most edifying conversation."

"You shall tell us," said Flora. "Yes, or we till go off and leave you to your meditations, here in the dark woods, with the owls and the tree-toads, whom you probably prefer for company."

Miss Etty condescended to confess she should be frightened without my manful protection.—Quite a triumph!

"I must thank you," she said, "for the novelty of an evening walk in the woods. I enjoy it, I confess, very highly. Look at those dark, mysterious vistas, and those deepening shadows blending the bank with its mirror; how different from the trite daylight truth! It took strong hold of my imagination."

"Go on. And so you were thinking—"

"I was hardly doing so much as thinking. I was seeing it to remember."

"Etty draws like an artist," said Flora, in a whisper.

"I was taking a mental daguerreotype of my companions, by twilight, and of all the scene round, too, in the same grey tint, just to look at some ten or fifteen years hence, when—"

"Let us all three agree," said I, "on the 28th of September, 18—, to remember this evening. I am certain I shall look back to it with pleasure."

"O horrid!" shrieked Flora; "how can you talk so! By that time you will be a shocking, middle-aged sort of person! I always wonder how people can be resigned to live, when they have lost youth, and with it all that makes life bearable! Fifteen years! Dismal thought! I shall have outlived every thing I care about in life!" So moaned Little Handsome.

"But you may have found new sources of interest," suggested I, perhaps a little too tenderly, for I had some sympathy with her dread of that particular phase of existence, middle-agedness. "Perhaps as the mistress of a household—"

"Worse and worse!" screamed Flora. "A miserable comforter you are! As if it were not enough merely to grow old, but one must be a slave and a martyr, never doing any thing one would prefer to do, nor going anywhere that one wants to go,—bound for ever to one spot, and one perpetual companion—"

"Planning dinners every day for cooks hardly less ignorant than yourself," added I, laughing at her selfish horror of matronly bondage, yet provoked at it. "Miss Etty, would you, if you could, stand still instead of going forward?"

"My happiness is altogether different from Flora's," she replied, "though we were brought up side by side. What has taught me to be independent of the world and its notice was my being continually compared with her, and assured, with compassionate regret, that I had none of those qualifications which could give me success in general society."

"Which was a libel—" I began.

"Without the last syllable," said Flora, catching up the word.

"At any rate, I knew I was plain and shy, and made friends slowly. So I chose such pleasures as should be under my own control, and could never fail me. They make my life so much happier and more precious than it was ten years ago, that I feel certain I shall have a wider and fuller enjoyment of the same ten years hence."

What they are, I partly guess, and partly drew from her, in her uncommonly frank mood. I begin to perceive that I, as well as Flora, have been cherishing most mistaken and unsatisfactory aims. My surly old inner self has often hinted as much, but I would not hear him. Etty may have her mistaken views too, but she has set me thinking.

Well, you crusty old curmudgeon, what has been my course since the awe of the schoolmaster ceased to be a sort of external conscience?

"You told me study was none of my business," says Conscience, "and a pretty piece of work you have made of it without me. Idle in college, and, when you began to perceive the connection between study and what people call success in life, overworking yourself, here you are, and just beginning to bethink yourself that I might have furnished just the right degree of stimulus, if you had but allowed it."—

Hark! hark! It is the duet! That silvery second is Etty's. I will steal down stairs, and when they have ended, pop in, and it shall go hard but I will have another song.

Parlor dark and empty. I fancied I heard Flora giggling somewhere, but I might be mistaken. Yet the voices sounded as if they came from that quarter—and—and I am sure I heard one note on the piano to give the pitch. Hark! I hear the parlor door softly shut, and now the stairs creak, and betray them stealing up, as they probably betrayed me stealing down. They only blew out the lights and kept perfectly still.—Witches!—Donkey!

Etty, your voice is still with me, clear, sweet, and penetrating, as it was when you talked so eloquently to-night, in our dreamy ramble.— What if I had early adopted her idea, that with every conscious power is bound up both the duty and the pleasure of developing it? Might I not now have reached higher ground, with health of body and mind? Ambition is an unhealthy stimulus. A wretchedly uneasy guest too, in the breast of an invalid. I would fain have a purer motive, which shall dismiss or control it.

Etty,—what are the uses to be made of her talents, while she lives thus withdrawn into a world of her own? Certainly, she is wrong; I shall convince her of it, when our friendship, now fairly planted, I trust, shall have taken root. Now we shall be the best friends in the world, and I will confide to her my—my—O, I am nodding over my paper, and that click says the old clock at the stair-head is making ready to announce midnight.

Sept. 29th. Capricious are the ways of womankind! Little Ugly is more thoroughly self-occupied and undemonstrative than ever. I am chagrined,—I think I am an ill-used man. I am downright angry and have half a mind to flirt with Little Handsome, out of spite. Only Miss Etty is too indifferent to care. I did but leave my old aunt to Flora, and step back to remark that it was a pleasant Sunday, that the sermon was homely and dull, and that the singing was discordant. Miss Etty assented, but very coldly, and presently she bolted into an old red house, and left me to go home by myself. When we started for church again, she was among the missing, and we found her in the pew, on our arrival. Thus pointedly to avoid me!—It might be accident, however, for she did not refuse to sing from the same hymn-book with me, and pointed to a verse on the other page, quaint, but excellent. After all, old Watts has written the best hymns in the language.

Evening. Without choice, I found myself walking round the pond again. It was as smooth as glass, and the leaves scarcely trembled on the trees and bushes round it. And in my heart reigned a similar calm. A strange quiet has fallen on my usually restless and anxious mind. I thought that in future I could be content not to look beyond the present duty, and, having done my best in all circumstances, that I could leave the results to follow as God wills. At that moment I could sincerely say, "Let him set me high or low, wherever he has work for me to perform." If I can remain thus quiet in mind, my health will soon return, I feel assured.

"If!" A well-founded distrust, I fear. This peace must be only a mood, to pass away when my natural spirits return. The fever of covetousness, of rivalry, of envy, and ambitious earthly aspirations, will come back. Like waves upon the lake, these uneasy feelings will chase each other over my soul. I picked up a little linen wristband at this moment, which I recognized. "She does not deserve to have it again, sulky Little Ugly!" said I. "I will put it in my pocket-book, and keep it as a remembrancer, for—I am glad to perceive—this is the very spot where we stood when we agreed to remember it and each other fifteen years hence. We will see what I shall be then, and I shall have some aid from this funny little talisman; it will speak to me quite as intelligibly and distinctly as its owner in a silent mood, at any rate."—

Heigh-ho! How lonely I feel to-night! Every human soul is—must be—a hermit, yet there might be something nearer companionship than I have found for mine as yet. No one knows me. My real self—Ha! old fellow, I like you better than I did; let us be good friends.

Sept. 30th. A golden sunrise. How much one loses under a false idea of its being a luxury to sleep in the morning! Reclining under Farmer Puddingstone's elm, and looking upon the glassy pond, in which the glowing sky mirrored itself, my soul was fired with poetic inspiration. On the blank page of a letter, I wrote:

"How holy the calm, in the stillness of morn,"—
and threw down my paper, being suddenly quenched by self-ridicule, as I was debating whether to write "To Ethelind" over the top. Returning that way after my ramble, I found the following conclusion pinned to the tree by a jackknife:—

"How holy the calm, in the stillness of morn,— 
When to call 'em to breakfast Josh toots on the horn, 
The ducks gives a quack, and the caow gives a moo, 
And the childen chimes in with their plaintive boo-hoo.
"How holy the calm, in the stillness of neune, 
When the pot is a singin its silvery teune,— 
Its soft, woolly teune, jest like Aribi's Darter, 
While the tea-kettle plays up the simperny arter.
"How holy the calm, in the stillness of night, 
When the moon, like a punkin, looks yaller and bright; 
While the aowls an' the katydids, screeching like time, 
Jest brings me up close to the eend o' my rhyme."
And underneath was added, as if in scorn of my fruitless endeavor:—

"I wrote that are right off, as fast as you could shell corn. S.P."

I suppose it is by way of thanks for my having driven the pigs from the garden, that I find a great bunch of dahlias adorning my mantelpiece. A brown earthen pitcher! And in the middle of the dahlias, a magnificent sunflower! It must be my aunt's doing, and its very homeliness pleases me, just as I love her homely sincerity of affection. Who arranges the glasses in the parlor? Etty, I would not fear to affirm, from the asters and golden-rod, cheek by jole with petunias and carnations. I wonder if she would not like some of the clematis I saw twining about a dead tree by the pond. It is more beautiful in its present state than when it was in flower. Etty loves wild flowers because she is one herself, and loves to hide here in her native nook, where no eye (I might except my own) gives her more than a casual glance.—

Noon. "I shall think it quite uncivil of Little Ugly if she does not volunteer to arrange my share of the booty I am bringing, now that I have almost broken my neck, and quite my cane, to obtain it." This I said to myself, as I came into the house by the kitchen entrance, and proceeded to deposit my trailing treasures on Norah's table, by the side of a yellow squash.

"Do go with me to Captain Black's," said Etty's voice at the side door. "The old folks have not seen you since your return."

"I can't!" said Flora with a drawl.

"Yes, do! Be coaxable, for once!"

"It only makes me obstinate to coax. Why not go without me, I beg?"

"I am no novelty. I was in twice only yesterday. Old people like attention from such as you, because—"

"Because it is unreasonable to expect it."

"The old man is failing."

"I can't do him any good. It is dusty, and my gown is long."

"It would please him to see you. I went to sit with him yesterday, but Timothy Digfort came in, with the same intent. So I went to church, having walked in the graveyard till the bell rang."

"Owl that you are! I don't envy you the lively meditations you must have had. Why don't you go? It's of no use waiting for me."

"What! Will you let me carry both these baskets?"

"There, put the little one on the top of the other. I don't think three or four peaches and a few flowers can add much to the weight. It is tiresome enough to do what I don't want to do, when it is really necessary."

And Little Handsome danced into the parlor, without perceiving me. I laid a detaining hand on Etty's basket as she put herself in motion, on which she turned round with a look of unfeigned astonishment.

"May I not be a substitute for Flora?" I inquired.

"I do not require any aid," said Miss Etty shyly. "It is not on that account I was urging Flora. Please to let me have the basket.—Indeed, it is quite unnecessary you should trouble yourself," she insisted, as I persevered in carrying off my load.

"It is the old red house, is it not?" said I, "with the roof sloping almost to the ground. And shall I say that you sent this? A view of my strange phiz will not refresh the old people like the sight of Flora's fresh young face, but I shall go in, and make the agreeable as well as I can."

"Are you really in earnest?" asked Etty, looking full in my face, with a smile of wonder that made her radiantly beautiful. She turned away blushing at my surprised and eager gaze, and, taking up her little basket, joined me, without a word of answer on my part. It was some time before I quite recovered from a strange flurry of spirits, which made my heart bump very much as it does when I hear any unexpected good news. And then I dashed away upon the subject of old age, and any thing else that came uppermost, in the hope of drawing the soul-lighted eyes to mine again, with that transfiguring smile playing upon the lips.

But I was like an unskilful magician; I had lost the spell; I could not again discover the spring I had touched. In vain I said to myself, "I'll make her do it again!" Little Ugly would'nt!

She answered my incoherent sallies in her usual sedate manner, and I believe it was only in my imagination that her cheek dimpled a little, with a heightened color, now and then, when I was particularly eloquent.

Introduced by Miss Etty, I was cordially welcomed. I am always affected by the sight of an aged woman who at all reminds me of the grandmother so indulgent to my prankful boyhood. The old man, too, interested me; he has seen much of the world, in his seafaring life, and related his adventures in a most unhackneyed style. I'll go and see them every day. One of the Captain's anecdotes was very good. "An old salt," he said, "once—once—" Bah, what was it? How very lovely Etty looked, sitting on a cricket at the old woman's feet, and, with a half smile on her face, submitting her polished little head to be stroked by her trembling hands! This I saw out of the corner of my eye.

Hark! Aunt Tabitha's call to dinner. I am glad of it. I was scribbling such nonsense, when I have so much to write better worth while.

12 o'clock. The night is beautiful, and it is a piece of self-denial to close the shutter, light my lamp, and write in my journal. Peace of mind came yesterday, positive happiness to-day, neither of which I can analyze. I only know I have not been so thoroughly content since the acquisition of my first jackknife; nor so proud since the day when I first sported a shining beaver. I have conquered Etty's distrust; she has actually promised me her friendship. I am rather surprised that I am so enchanted at this triumph over a prejudice. I am hugely delighted. Not because it is a triumph, however;—vanity has nothing to do with it. It is a worthier feeling, one in which humility mingles with a more cordial self-respect than I have hitherto been conscious of. I can, and I will, deserve Etty's good opinion. She is an uncompromising judge, but I will surprise her by going beyond what she believes me capable of. I never had a sister; I shall adopt Etty, and when I go home, we will write every week, if not every day.

But how came it all about? By what blessed sunbeams can the ice have been softened, till now, as I hope, it is broken up for ever? People under the same roof cannot long mistake each other, it seems, else Etty and I should never have become friends.

As we left the door of Captain Black's house, and turned into the field path to avoid the dust, Etty said, "I do not know whether you care much about it, but you have given pleasure to these good old people, who have but little variety in their daily routine, being poor, and infirm, and lonely. It is really a duty to cheer them up, if we can." I felt that it warmed my heart to have shared that duty with her, and I said so. I thought she looked doubtful and surprised. It was a good opening for egotism, and I improved it. I saw that she was no uninterested listener, but all along rather suspicious and incredulous, as if what I was claiming for myself was inconsistent with her previous notions of my disposition. I believe I had made some little impression Saturday night, but her old distrust had come back by Sunday morning. Now she was again shaken.

At last, looking up with the air of one who has taken a mighty resolve, she said, "I presume such a keen observer as yourself must have noticed that the most reserved people are, on some occasions, the most frank and direct. I am going to tell you that I feel some apology due to you, if my first impressions of your character are really incorrect. I am puzzled what to think."

"I am to suppose that your first impressions were not as favorable as those of Mrs. Black, whom I heard remark that I was an amiable youth, with an uncommonly pleasant smile."

"Just the opposite, in fact,—pardon me! To my eye, you had a mocking, ironical cast of countenance. I felt sure at once you were the sort of person I never could make a friend of, and acquaintances I leave to Flora, who wants to know every body. I thought the less I had to do with you the better."

I felt hurt, and almost insulted. I had not been mistaken, then; she had disliked me, and perhaps disliked me yet.

"It was not that I stood in fear of your satire," she continued; "I am indifferent to ridicule or censure in general; no one but a friend has power to wound me."

A flattering emphasis, truly! I felt my temper a little stirred by Miss Etty's frankness. I was sulkily silent.

"I had no claim to any forbearance, any consideration for peculiarities of any sort. I am perfectly resigned to being the theme of your wit in any circle, if you can find aught in my country-bred ways to amuse you."

Zounds! I must speak.

"My conduct to Flora must have confirmed the charming impression produced by my unlucky phiz, I imagine. But don't bear malice against me in her behalf; you must have seen that she was perfectly able to revenge herself."

Etty's light-hearted laugh rung out, and reminded me of my once baffled curiosity when it reached my ear from Norah's domain. But though this unsuppressed mirth of hers revealed the prettiest row of teeth in the world, and made the whole face decidedly beautiful, somehow or other it gave me no pleasure, but rather a feeling of depression. My joining in it was pure pretence.

Presently the brightness faded, and I found myself gazing at the cold countenance of Little Ugly again.

"No, I did not refer to Flora," said she. "As you say, she can avenge her own quarrel, and we both were quite as ready to laugh at you, as you could be to laugh at us, I assure you."

"No doubt of it," said I, with some pique.

"But what I cannot forgive you, cannot think of with any toleration, is—"

"What?" cried I, astonished. "How have I offended?"

"A man of any right feeling at all could not make game of an aged woman, his own relative, at the same time that he was receiving her hearty and affectionate hospitality."

"Neither have I done so," cried I, in a towering passion. "You do me a great wrong in accusing me of it. I would knock any man down who should treat my aunt with any disrespect. And if I have sometimes allowed Flora to do it unrebuked, you well know that she might once have pulled my hair, or cuffed my ears, and I should have thought it a becoming thing for a young lady to do. I have played the fool under your eye, and submit that you should entertain no high opinion of my wisdom. But you have no right to judge so unfavorably of my heart. If I have spoken to my aunt with boyish petulance when she vexed me, at least it was to her face, and regretted and atoned for to her satisfaction. I am incapable of deceiving her, much less of ridiculing her either behind her back or before her face. I respond to her love for me with sincere gratitude, and the sister of my grandmother shall never want any attention that an own grandson could render while I live. I shall find it hard to forgive you this accusation, Miss Etty," I said, haughtily, and shut my mouth as if I would never speak to her again.

She made no answer, but looked up into my face with one of those wondrous smiles. It went as straight to my heart as a pistol bullet could do, my high indignation proving no defence against it. I was instantly vanquished, and as I heartily shook the hand she held out to me, I was just able to refrain from pressing it to my lips, which, now I think of it, would have been a most absurd thing for me to do. I wonder what could have made me think of doing it!

After Dinner. I hear Flora's musical laugh in the mysterious boudoir, and a low, congratulatory little murmur of good humor on Etty's part. I believe she is afraid to laugh loud, lest I should hear her do it, and rush to the spot. The door is ajar; I'll storm the castle.

Flora admitted me with a shout of welcome, the instant I tapped. Etty pushed a rocking-chair toward me, but said nothing. The little room was almost lined with books. Drawings, paintings, shells, corals, and, in the sunny window, plants, met my exploring gaze, but the great basket was nowhere to be seen. It was got up for the nonce, I imagine. Etty a rogue!

"This is the pleasantest nook in the house. It is a shame you have not been let in before," said Flora, zealously. "You shall see Etty's drawings." Neither of us opened the portfolio she seized, however, but watched Etty's eyes. They were cast down with a diffident blush which gave me pain; I was indeed an intruder. She gave us the permission we waited for, however. There were many good copies of lessons: those I did not dwell upon. But the sketches, spirited though imperfect, I studied as if they had been those of an Allston. Etty was evidently in a fidget at this preference of the smallest line of original talent over the corrected performances which are like those of every body else. I drew out a full-length figure done in black chalk on brown paper. It chained Flora's wondering attention as quite new. It was a young man with his chair tipped back; his feet rested on a table, with a slipper perched on each toe. His hands were clasped upon the back of his head. The face—really, I was angry at the diabolical expression given it by eyes looking askance, and lips pressed into an arch by a contemptuous smile. It was a corner of this very brown sheet that I saw under her arm, when she vanished from the kitchen as I entered; the vociferous mirth which attracted me was at my expense. Before Flora could recognize my portrait, Little Ugly pounced upon it; it fell in a crumpled lump into the bright little wood fire, and ceased to exist.

"I had totally forgotten it," said she, with a blush which avenged my wounded self-love. Ironical pleasure at having been the subject of her pencil I could not indulge myself in expressing, as I did not care to enlighten Little Handsome. Any lurking pique was banished when Etty showed me, with a smile, the twilight view by the pond.

"Do you draw?" she asked; and Flora cried, "He makes caricatures of his friends with pen and ink; let him deny it if he can!"

I was silent.
 Nature, and Books about it.


Often, during a long and dusty walk in midsummer, I have chanced
suddenly upon a wayside spring, and stooping drank directly from the
bosom of Mother Earth. Filled with the pleasant recollections of such
moments, how tame is all other tipple, even though the crystal is a
marvel of art, with “beady bubbles winking at the brim”!

So, too, I find it with matters of graver import. I would that no one
should aid me in gathering my stores, but with my own hands I would
delve at the fountain-head. The spirit of such an aim is a spur to
youth, but becomes a source of amusement rather than a more serious
matter in our maturer years. I am more than willing now to take nature
at second hand. But is this safe? How far can we trust another’s eyes,
ears, and sense of touch and smell? There are critics scattered as
thickly as motes in a sunbeam, veritable know-alls, who shriek “Beware!”
when nature is reported; but, for all this, outdoor books are very
tempting to a host of people, and in the long run educate rather than
misinform. That ever two naturalists should wholly agree, after careful
study of an animal, is not probable. There will be the same differences
as exist between two translations of the same book. What a crow, a
mouse, or a gorgeous cluster of blooming lotus is to me, these will
never be to another; but, because of this, do not persist that your
neighbor is blind, deaf, or stupid. I recently had a horse ask me to let
down the bars; to another it would have been merely the meaningless fact
that the horse neighed.

Having an outdoor book in hand, when and how should it be read? It is no
doubt very tempting to think of a shady nook, or babbling brook, or
both, in connection with the latest outdoor volume. Possibly, as you
start out for a quiet day, you string together a bit of rhyme concerning
the book, as Leigh Hunt did and others have done since. It is a common
practice to carry a book into the fields, but not a logical one. How can
a book, even one of outdoor topics, compete with Nature? Certainly if
Nature is to the reader but a convenient room, a lighter and more airy
one than any at home, does it not signify a serious lack in the mind of
that person? From a notice of a recent publication I clip the following:
“A capital book to slip into one’s pocket when taking an outing.” If,
because of its size, it could be readily slipped into one’s pocket, then
it was a capital way of getting rid of it. What sort of an outing can
one have who reads all the while? Is not the cloud-flecked sky something
more than a ceiling, the surrounding hills more than mere walls, the
grass and flowers more than carpet? There is one pleasure even greater
than that of reading, and that is being out of doors. To read at such a
time seems to imply one of two things: either that the reader knows
Nature thoroughly, or is indifferent to such knowledge. The former
phenomenon the world has never seen; the latter, to speak mildly,
deserves our pity. To escape ridicule, which is something, to insure
happiness, which is more, to avoid great dangers, which is of even
greater importance, one must know something of Nature. In one sense she
is our persistent foe. She mantles with inviting cover of rank grass her
treacherous quicksands; she paints in tempting colors her most poisonous
fruits; she spreads unheralded the insidious miasma from the meadow and
the swamp; but neither the quicksand, the unwholesome fruit, nor noxious
vapors is an unmixed evil. Let us take them as they are, see them as
parts and parcels of a complete whole, and each hour of every outing is
an unclouded joy. Nature never excuses our ignorance.

Whatever one’s position in life, does a knowledge of Nature prove
unneeded? Should we not know that potatoes grow beneath the sod, as well
as apples grow upon trees? Gather a crowd at random on the streets, or
corner a half-dozen at some social gathering, and how many can tell you
the life-history of a mushroom or a truffle? “Do potatoes grow upon
bushes?” was asked not long since. This was positively painful, but
worse things have happened. A young lady, from a city renowned for its
schools, startled her country cousins by asking, while toying with an
ear of corn, “Which end, when you plant, do you put in the ground, the
blunt or the pointed one?” If botany is impracticable in the curriculum
of the public schools, ought not, at least, the natural history of our
common articles of food to be taught? Can not such ignorance as this
implied be banished from the land?

But I have wandered; let us come back to books. If books, even those
descriptive of nature, are out of place in the woods, meadows, or by the
brook-side, when should they be read? Clearly, when the scenes they
treat of are not accessible. Why should we be entertained with a
description of a bird or flower, when they are both before us? It seems
incredible that any one should be better pleased with another’s
impressions, however cunningly told, than with those of his own senses.
It is a strange mental condition that can delight in the story of a
bird, and yet have no desire to see the creature; to be a witness to all
the marvelous cunning that this bird exhibits. Few are those among us
whose outings cover a lifetime; and when the happy days of freedom come
to us, let books be kept behind, and with untrammeled eyes and ears let
us drink in the knowledge that comes to us at no other time. Summer is
all too short a season for other occupation than enthusiastic
sight-seeing and sound-hearing.

Long before autumn most of us must be back to the busy town. Business
demands our work-day hours; and now, during the leisure of long winter
evenings, with what delight one may recall vacation-days, reading
outdoor books! The library now becomes the mountain, lake, or river.
With Thoreau, Burroughs, or Jeffries at hand, one can hear the summer
birds in the shrill whistle of the wind, and the babbling of summer
brooks in the rattle of icy rain.

For permission to reprint, in this collected form, the brief essays here
brought together, the author is indebted to Messrs. Harper & Bros., D.
Appleton & Co., the editors of the Christian Union, Christian at Work,
and of Garden and Forest, of New York; and to the editor of the
American, of Philadelphia Pa.

                                                C. C. A.

               TRENTON, NEW JERSEY, _September 1, 1890_.




------------------------------------------------------------------------




                               CONTENTS.


                          _PART I.—IN WINTER._
                                                   PAGE
                 A WINTER SUNRISE                     1
                 MIDWINTER MINSTRELSY                 8
                 A COLD WAVE                         14
                 THE WOODS IN WINTER                 22
                 OLD ALMANACS                        29
                 A QUAKER CHRISTMAS                  41
                 A NEW PLACE TO LOAF                 46
                 ROUND ABOUT A SPRING IN WINTER      51
                 A BAY-SIDE OUTING                   60
                 FREE FOR THE DAY                    66
                 AN OPEN WINTER                      82
                 A FOGGY MORNING                     89
                 THE OLD FARM’S WOOD-PILE            96

                         _PART II.—IN SPRING._

                 THE APRIL MOON                     105
                 CONCERNING SMALL OWLS              111
                 A HIDDEN HIGHWAY                   117
                 WEATHERCOCKS                       127
                 APPLE-BLOSSOMS                     133
                 THE BUILDING OF THE NEST           139
                 A MEADOW MUD-HOLE                  147
                 AN OPEN WELL                       164

                         _PART III.—IN SUMMER._

                 A NOISOME WEED                     171
                 A WAYSIDE BROOK                    178
                 WAYSIDE TREES                      183
                 SKELETON-LIFTING                   186
                 WHY I PREFER A COUNTRY LIFE        190
                 A MIDSUMMER OUTING                 197
                 A WORD ABOUT KNOWLEDGE             203
                 THE NIGHT-SIDE OF NATURE           207
                 THE HERBS OF THE FIELD             215

                         _PART IV.—IN AUTUMN._

                 A LAKE-SIDE OUTING                 221
                 DEW AND FROST                      227
                 A HERMIT FOR THE DAY               232
                 SNOW-BIRDS                         243
                 BLUE JAYS                          249
                 THE GROWTH OF TREES                257
                 FOSSIL MAN IN THE DELAWARE VALLEY  260

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                PART I.

                               IN WINTER.

                                -------




                           A Winter Sunrise.


The waning moon was scarcely visible in the western sky and not a star
shone overhead, when I ventured out of doors, at the call of the
gathering crows. These noisy scavengers of the river’s shore had
evidently slept with one eye open, and at the first faint glimmering of
the dawn signaled, in no uncertain tones, the coming day. Across the
brown meadows floated their clamorous cries and roused me when my own
slumber was most profound; but I responded promptly, willing at least,
if not wildly anxious, to witness a winter sunrise.

I have said the meadows were brown; such was their color when I saw them
last; but now, every wrinkled blade of last year’s grass was daintily
feathered with pearly frost. A line, too, of steel-gray crystals topped
every rail of the old worm fence, and capped the outreaching branches of
the scattered trees. The glint of splintered glass filled the landscape.

Knowing the view would there be least obstructed, I walked leisurely to
a high knoll in the lower meadows, leaving a curiously dark streak
behind me where I brushed away the frost as I passed. Not a bird greeted
me. The sparrows and chickadees of yesterday were still asleep. The
crackling of brittle twigs beneath my feet was the only sound I heard,
save, of course, the blended voices of the distant crows. The
brightening of the eastern sky proceeded slowly. Cloud above cloud
threatened to shut out the light until the day had well advanced; while
from the river rose a filmy bank of smoke-like fog that settled in huge
masses over the intervening marshes. But still the crows were clamorous,
and I had been told that their songs at sunrise augured a fair day; so,
’twixt hope and fear, I reached the high knoll in my neighbor’s meadow.
It was at the nick of time. Without a heralding ray in the whole
horizon, a flood of rosy light leaped through a rift in the clouds and
every cold gray crystal of the frost glowed with ruddy warmth. Then
deafening loud was the din of the foraging crows, as though they exulted
at the fullfillment of their prediction; and from that moment on, the
day was beautiful.

And if crows could be so enthusiastic over a bright winter day, why not
other birds? What of that host of arctic finches that tarry with us
until spring? I listened in vain for the foxie sparrow’s warble, the
call of the Peabody bird, and whistling of the purple finch. These were
all here yesterday and making merry; now every one was mute. The
ceaseless cawing of the crows may have drowned their voices, but I think
not. However, in other ways and no less cheerful ones, the vivifying
effect of sunrise was soon apparent everywhere about me.

My friends, the meadow mice, were in their glory. Their grass-walled
runways were roofed with ice, and not a breath of the chilly breeze that
fretted the outer world could reach them. I quite forgot the increasing
beauty of the eastern sky in my eagerness to watch the mice. I could
look down upon them, through the transparent roofs of their crystal
palaces, and wonder what might be their errands. Every one was in a
hurry, and none stopped to nibble at a blade of grass or tarried at a
cluster of seed-pods. Was it the mere pleasure of activity that prompted
them? It was very warm beneath the ice and far from cold above it. But
all the while I might be frightening the poor creatures, so I withdrew,
at the thought, to the cover of a clump of bushes. Quiet then seemed
partially restored, and soon one mouse came from an opening in the roof,
where many runways met. It picked its painful way over the frost, as
though every crystal was a pricking needle. I moved and away it darted,
but not to tell its fellows. Another and another came, and, like the one
first seen, they simply ran from post to pillar and back from pillar to
post. Perhaps a weasel was on their track—but, if we commence surmising,
there will never be an end to it. Let me declare dogmatically, these
mice were taking a sun bath, and with this thought, leave them.

As I looked about me, the crows again became the most prominent feature
of the landscape. They hovered in a loose flock over all the meadows;
literally, in thousands, and as the rays of the sun struck them, they
too glistened as though the frost crystals had incased their feathers.
Higher and higher they rose into the misty air and soon dispersed in
every direction; but they will gather again as the day closes, for over
the river, somewhere in the woods, they have a roosting-place. I have
seen this knoll, now thickly tenanted by mice, black with crows, day
after day, within a fortnight. What then became of the mice? Surely
their cunning stood them well in need to escape these ravenous birds,
and yet they have done so. Stupid as they seem when studied
individually, these mice must have a modicum of mother-wit, to thrive in
spite of so many odds against them.

But now, as the day advanced, the wooded bluff a mile away and the
willows on the river-shore gave evidence that not alone were the crows
and mice awake to the beauty and warmth of a winter sunrise. The
feathered world was now astir and music from a hundred throats filled
the crisp air. There was, it is true, not that volume of sound that
greets the daybreak in June, and no one voice was as tuneful as a
thrush. This mattered not. The essential feature of a pleasant stroll,
evidence that I was not alone, was present; for I can not keep company
with meadow mice. I call it a dead day, when there are no birds, and he
who would know what such a day is should be on the marshes or the river
when not a sound rises from the wild waste about him.

I stood long listening to the afar-off choir, and then, turning my steps
homeward, fancied I could distinguish the different birds that now made
the woods fairly ring. There was a ditch to cross before reaching the
hillside, and right glad am I that I looked before leaping it, for I saw
a lazy frog slowly responding to the increasing warmth of the sunshine.
All night long this creature had been sleeping in a cosy nook, a foot
deep in the soft mud which was protected here from the north and west
and has never been known to freeze. One eye and a small fraction of the
frog’s head were visible, but the former was bright, and I was sure that
no accident had happened to bring it even so far above the surface. I
stood very still, expecting much, but it was like watching the hour-hand
of a clock. In time the whole head was exposed, then the fore-limbs, and
this, for many minutes, was the extent of the frog’s activity. I
ventured finally to assist, and lifting up the clammy creature, placed
it on a floating fence rail, whereon the sun shone as in summer. The
frog was happy. Its expression showed this, its pulsing sides proved it,
and could I have heard it croak, my own satisfaction would have been
complete; but this it would not do. But let it be remembered, the
croaking can not be forced, either in June or January, and the voices of
frogs have been heard frequently during the latter month. Even when the
winter has been very severe, a typical January thaw has led them to give
tongue, to croak unmistakably, although in thinner tones than during a
summer’s night chorus.

There were hours yet before noon, and my little adventure with the
languid frog prompted me to explore the ditch in a rude way. All forms
of aquatic life seemed as active as in spring. Fish, salamanders,
snakes, turtles, and insects, were not only active but alert, and as
difficult to capture as I had ever found them. Actual sluggishness
characterized the frogs only, and yet these creatures are supposed to be
less susceptible to cold than all the others. The truth is, the winter
habits of every form of life are little known, and what impressions, if
any, most have upon the subject are more or less erroneous. We have had
no winter as yet, but the same conditions that I found to-day were true
of the ditch-dwellers last year and the year before, when we had not
only winter, but winter intensified.

I did not enumerate the many birds aright as I approached the hillside.
My attention was suddenly called from the ditch to the green-brier
thicket beyond by a familiar sound, yet which now, late in January,
seemed quite out of place if not out of tune and harsh. It was the
querulous cry of a cat-bird. This familiar thrush is no _rara avis_ at
such a time, although probably in Audubon’s day few if any remained in
New Jersey during the winter. No author makes mention, I believe, of
such an occurrence. The number seen each winter gradually increases, and
the disposition to remain affects apparently these birds over a steadily
extending area. So, at least, from correspondence, I am led to believe.

I found but three flowers as I neared my home—a dandelion, a violet, and
a pale spring beauty; but earlier in the month, a friend had been more
successful, and gathered not only those I have named, but others.
Doubtless these superlatively early blossomings have to do with the
present extraordinary winter, now more than half gone, but not
altogether, perhaps. Many a plant is more vigorous than we suspect, and
stray flowers are hidden beneath the fallen leaves more often than we
know.

When, in the forbidding gloom of a winter dawn, I ventured out of doors,
it was with the anticipation of a cheerless walk, if not fear of actual
discomfort; but the brilliant sunrise promptly dispelled all this, my
fears giving way to hopes that were more than realized.




                         Midwinter Minstrelsy.


It is a common impression, I find, that when the Northern song-birds
come in autumn from Canada to the Middle and Southern States, they leave
their music behind them, and during their sojourn here they only chirp
and twitter at best, and far oftener are moody and silent. This
absurdity is not readily explained, unless it be that lovers of birds
are persistently indoors from November until May. I do not pretend to
say that a keen, cold, frosty morning is rendered the more charming by
reason of the best efforts of the winter wren, purple finch, or
white-crowned sparrow, but that not one of them is necessarily mute
because the mercury is down to zero. Indeed, temperature alone seems to
have almost nothing to do with the movements or habits generally of our
birds, either the resident or migratory species. All depends upon the
food-supply, and a feast in winter is followed by a merry heart as
surely as a successful wooing in May results in ecstatic song. I think
this is borne out by the fact that during the present season—as yet
winter only in name—there has been really less activity and disposition
on the part of all our birds to sing than when we have had snow and ice
in abundance. I worked my way recently through a tangled, trackless bit
of swamp, and, while climbing over the prostrate trunk of a huge tree,
startled a winter wren as it crept from beneath a smaller log near by.
It seemed as astonished that I should have ventured so far from the open
meadow as I was to see any bird less mopish than an owl. The wren stood
contemplating me for at least one minute—a long time for a wren to
remain in one spot—and then gave vent to its astonishment by, not a
chirp, but a short series of sweet notes, that well repaid me for my
recent labors. Then, darting into the thicket, the wren was gone, but I
was not left alone. At the same moment, a troop of tree-sparrows settled
upon the clustered water-birches, and their united voices rose to the
dignity of a bird’s song. Such it evidently was intended to be, for the
chattering of birds, when they merely chirp or twitter—which is but
their conversation—is never so softly modulated, but pitched in a
hundred different keys. This became noticeable directly afterward, for
the birds scattered among the undergrowth, and the short, quick
utterances that I soon continually heard bore no resemblance to the two
or three notes, which, before they had separated, they uttered in
concert.

And as I returned home, while crossing a wide meadow where the rank
grasses afforded excellent cover, I found many small brown birds that
ran through them as aimlessly as frightened mice; they were titlarks, as
it proved. None sang until I was near at hand, when one after the other
rose a short distance from the ground, flew a few feet, and uttered,
while on the wing, a sharp, but bell-like note that was truly musical.
Another and another started up, at almost every step, but only to alight
again directly. At times there were four or five in sight at once, and
then their united voices sounded sweetly in the still air. Quickening my
steps, the flock finally rose in a body, and, so fitful and irregular
was their progress, had there been a stiff breeze at the time they might
have been mistaken for drifting autumn leaves. I need not pursue this
feature of winter bird life further, so far as the migratory species are
concerned; but a word with reference to those birds which are here
throughout the year—the resident species. The robin, Carolina wren,
song-sparrow, and thistle-bird sing, I am sure, with unabated ardor, in
spite of the cold. A miserably damp, foggy, or even windy day has a
depressing effect, and at such a time I usually find the woods, meadows,
and the river shore quite silent, unless, indeed, there be crows in
abundance. During the last week in January, 1889, when much of the time
there was a chilly northwest wind and often a clouded sky, the
song-sparrows thronged the willow hedges, and sang their May-day
melodies. I heard them soon after sunrise, at midday, and once after the
sun had gone down and it was fast growing dark.

There is yet another feature of bird music which is characteristic of
winter—the singing of passing flocks when high in the air. Day after
day, of late, soon after sunrise, a merry company of bluebirds fly over
the house, and each one sings as he passes by. Toward sunset they return
to the cedar and pine woods across the river, and then, too, they may be
heard. Their movements are as regular as those of the crows that roost
somewhere in the same neighborhood. I have often failed to see them,
they flew at so great an elevation, but their song is not to be
confounded with that of any other bird; nor are they like the
chats—ventriloquists. Somewhere in the upper regions they were floating
along, and their music, drifting earthward, brightens the winter
landscape until we think of early spring. But the bluebirds are not
always so unsociable. There is a rick of cornstalks not far away, about
which I find a pair almost daily, and did not the pestiferous
house-sparrows worry them so much, I am sure they would sing more
frequently. They appear to realize that their songs may be heard, and so
bring down upon them an attack; so, if they warble at all, it is very
softly, as though not quite discouraged, and hopeful of better times.
They have held their little fort, however, since early autumn, and I am
in hopes will outwit their enemies when nesting time arrives.

No, it is not true that the country is desolate, even in midwinter. I
heard a bluebird sing during the great storm of March, 1888, and since
then have been hopeful, although for more than one mile, during my
recent outings, comparative silence reigned. And now, what of to-day,
the last one of the month? I heard the crested tit whistling in the
far-off woods before the sun had risen, and not less musical was the
distant cawing of the myriad crows that were just leaving their roost.
Overhead, in the tops of the tall pines, were nuthatches and chicadees,
and shortly after a host of pine finches. They were all fretting, as I
fancied, because the wide reaches of meadow near by were still shut from
view, but it was not harsh scolding, after all; and as the day
brightened, their voices cleared, until later, when the birds had
scattered among the hedges, they all sang sweetly; for at such a time
the ear is not critical, and even the plaint of the nuthatch is not out
of tune. On and on I walked, expecting in the wilder woods and about the
marshy meadows to find birds and birds—many that sang and others that
would interest by virtue of their ways. I confidently looked for the
host of winter finches and the overstaying herons, but I saw none, heard
none. By noon the whole country was sadly silent, and not even a crow
passed by. Yet the day was perfect; save a little cooler, it was typical
Indian-summer weather. Plant life responded to the inviting sunshine,
and I gathered violets and spring beauty. Even the saxifrage shone
through the brown leaves, its white buds almost unfolded. It is in vain
to conjecture what had become of the birds of the early morning. Let it
suffice to say that I was greatly disappointed, and had I not been astir
so very early would have been the more sorely puzzled. As it was, the
birds had not utterly forsaken us, and proved in their own way and in
their own time that midwinter minstrelsy is not a myth.




                              A Cold Wave.


When Mr. Isaac Norris, of Philadelphia, merchant and man of observation,
recorded the weather in the vicinity of that city, 1749 and earlier, he
did not mention “cold waves,” as such, but remarked that there was
greater irregularity then than formerly, adding the significant
statement, “at present it is warm, even the very next day after a severe
cold, and sometimes the weather changes several times a day.”

Whether since 1749 these sudden changes of temperature have become more
frequent or not, I have no satisfactory means of determining, but am
inclined to think such to be the case; but new or old as a
meteorological freak, a cold wave is worthy of the rambler’s study, in
spite of the discomforts sure to be encountered, for it necessarily
affects all animal life that was astir before it reached us. Yesterday,
there were birds in the woods and about the meadows; even spiders had
spread their webs in the sunny glades, and stray flies hummed in the
sheltered hollows of the hill; so that thoughts of an early spring came
continually to the fore, as I watched and listened to the busy life
about me, myself reclining at full length, on a prostrate tree.

Had there been no intimation of the cold wave’s coming in the morning
paper, it would have been suspected as on its way, for all day the
barometer was suspiciously low, and soon after sunset a faint moaning in
the chimney corner and a far shriller sound among the tree-tops
suggested a coming change. The sudden up-leaping of sparks, too, from
the back-log counts for something. For an hour or more the coals had
been red or purple and scarcely a flame, however small, shot from the
glowing mass; then, at the whisper of the fretful wind, suddenly long
trains of brilliant sparks flew upward, and again, both the back-log and
the black fore-sticks were ablaze. Doubtless, in the good old times,
this never passed unnoticed and every one ventured a prediction when
there was no likelihood of erring. So he who spake first, in the days of
our grandfathers, became the greater weather-prophet.

During the night the cold wave came. As I write, we are having the first
ice-making weather of the season, although February is well advanced.
The chill, gray clouds scarcely concealed the sun as it rose, and later,
when the sky was clear, a rosy blush tinted the drifted snow upon the
fields. What now of the busy birds, the spiders, and humming flies of
yesterday? Have they folded their tents like Arabs and silently
disappeared?

Facing the north wind, I pushed through brake and brier, listening at
every step for the chirp of a startled bird. For some time I neither saw
nor heard a living creature, nor, indeed, did I wonder at their absence.
At last a solitary crow struggled against the fierce wind and uttered at
times a most melancholy plaint. It was all but sufficient to send me
home, and I stood for a moment pitifully undecided; but the crow, I saw,
did make some headway, and I took a hint of it. The icy gusts that swept
the hillside soon forced me, however, to seek shelter, and I crept for
some distance along the bed of a deep dry ditch overhung by blackberry
canes and smilax. Here I found a more spring-like temperature, and was
not surprised when from the clusters of dead grass blue jays hopped
before me. They were evidently startled at my appearance in their snug
retreat, but still were not timid, as when in the open woods. I often
approached within a few paces, and they hid, I am sure, in the tangled
vines and bushes on the banks of the ditch, instead of flying out into
the meadow. But if jays, there should be other birds I thought, and I
stopped again and again to listen. It was the same old story—nothing was
to be heard but the roar of the wind overhead. Weary at last with
creeping through such cramped quarters, I sat down to rest at a
convenient point, and never have I been so fortunate in the choice of an
outlook.

It is clearly evident that our resident birds and mammals soon know
every nook and corner of their chosen haunts, and more, that they pass
from point to point in accordance with fixed plans and do not wander
aimlessly about. If you overtake in broad daylight, as sometimes
happens, any animal larger than a mouse, it is not likely to be
confused, not knowing which way to turn. Such indecision would
invariably prove fatal. Their actions under such circumstances indicate
full knowledge of their surroundings, and convince one of this fact. If
not true, then every surprised animal must take in at a glance every
tree, burrow, ditch, and path, and select between them, in the twinkling
of an eye. My own observations lead me to conclude that our mammals,
which are largely nocturnal, survey at night the whole country and know
every inch of the ground. Every tanglewood is to them a city with its
main thoroughfares and side alleys, and it is this knowledge that
enables them to outwit their foes. Within a few days, a skunk came
boldly into the yard, in broad daylight; defied the dog by assuming a
bold front, and was making for the only near place of safety within easy
reach, when in the yard, an opening under a side porch. By mere accident
only it was run down and killed. This dreaded creature had evidently
been belated, and coming home after sunrise used wonderful tactics when
it encountered the dog. It played with him. It ran this way and that,
but never far, and always faced the half-timid mastiff. It shook its
huge tail, bristled its long fur, snapped, squeaked, and all the while
approached in short stages the porch. At last, seeing more than an even
chance of reaching it, the cunning creature bolted, and I am almost
sorry that it did not escape.

So, too, with our birds. Not all of them act upon foreknowledge of a
coming cold wave, and temporarily migrate. On the other hand, had they
no places of refuge, the majority would perish. No bird could have
weathered the cold cutting winds that prevailed last night, with the
air, too, at times, filled with stinging sleet. Yet, hunt the country
over, after such a night, and how seldom will you find a dead bird lying
upon the ground. Even after such a storm as the historic blizzard of a
year ago, birds that had succumbed through exposure, were comparatively
few. The fact that the alien sparrows in our cities were destroyed in
large numbers, strengthens my previous assertion, for they, unlike wild
life, are largely deprived of the advantage of snug harbors, such as the
country affords our native birds; and their semi-domesticated condition
has rendered them less provident and observing. Such, at least, was the
tenor of my thoughts while resting in my sheltered outlook.

Before many minutes had elapsed the expected chirping of winter finches
was heard; at first in the distance, but directly almost overhead; then,
everywhere about me. A moment later, and a dozen were in full view.
Myself, a shapeless mass upon a mossy log, the birds mistook me for a
part of it, and I had but to look and listen. Foxie sparrows threaded
the tangled maze of vine and cane, singing a few sweet notes at times,
as the wind lulled and the warm sunshine flooded the shelter with a
brighter glow; white-throats warbled in their listless way, and one
fearless winter wren peered into every cranny of the hollowed earth,
spider-hunting wherever the waters of the last freshet had caverned the
overhanging banks. As it drew near, I almost held my breath, hoping it
would venture to creep over me. Once it came very near, stopped and
looked me squarely in the face, but without its suspicions being
aroused. Probably I needed but a few cobwebs to have brought it even
closer.

For long the light-hearted birds, in joyous mood, passed up and down
this hidden highway, often within arm’s reach, and not one recognized
me. It was much like being alone in a strange city, where the feeling of
desolate isolation can best be realized. Much as I might desire it, I
could in no sense become a part of the happy world about me. Here, at
times, is the shadow that rests upon the rambler’s path—to feel that at
best he is but tolerated, and to know that had these happy creatures the
power they would drive him into the bleak world beyond.

One interesting feature of bird life was to-day very apparent. Never did
two or more individuals meet upon the same twig but a low, scarcely
audible twitter was uttered. I could often see a slight movement of the
beak, without hearing a sound, and notice a gentle tremor of the wings,
that doubtless meant much to them, but can not be interpreted by us.
Then away they would go, following the line of the long ditch without
grazing the tiniest twig that bent above them. Why many a sparrow,
apparently in reckless haste, did not come to grief, is indeed a puzzle;
for never, I thought, had I found thorns so sharp, so slender, and so
thickly set.

But not birds alone had sought shelter here; the mice also had been
driven from the wind-swept meadows, and these ventured into the
sunlight, but were cautious to a marked degree. None came very near, and
when I was in full view they stopped, sat upon their haunches and felt
sure, if I correctly read their thoughts, that all was not quite right.
Not one passed by me. Their keen noses detected what the proverbially
keen sight of the birds had failed to discover, that I was not a
harmless bit of driftwood. Or did the sense of hearing catch the sound
of my breathing? Explain it as one may, meadow-mice were never before so
knowing, and I recall the charge that I have often made, that they are
stupid.

So here I sat for two whole hours, yet not aware that so long a time had
elapsed. It mattered nothing that the fierce wind raged above me; that
the bending oaks echoed its heartless boast:

              “I come from the fields of the frozen north,
                 O’er the waste of the trackless sea,
               Where the winter sun looks wearily forth,
                 And yieldeth his strength to me.”

This lessened not my comfort nor quickened my homeward steps. Wrapping
my cloak the closer, I recalled the day’s adventures as I withdrew,
thinking how true it was that pleasant surprises are ever in store for
the earnest rambler and many a loss for him who is faint-hearted. It is
not well to judge the world through a window.




                          The Woods in Winter.


When I walk in the woods in summer I think of the trees as a shelter.
They go to form a protection alike against the sun and passing shower.
And if I turn from the old cart-path it is but to enter some one-side
compartment of a great labyrinth of rooms. No one tree calls for
observation. They are as the inner walls of a great house, and what they
surround alone commands attention. It is going out of doors as much to
leave the thick woods as to pass from your dwelling. But now, during
December’s bright, cheery, winter days, every tree in these same woods
becomes my companion. We are exposed to the same sunny sky, and as I
wander from one to another, each has its pleasant greeting for me. This
has been a life-long fancy of mine. Walk up to a century-old oak, and
how promptly it speaks to you of giant strength and sturdy independence;
turn then to a stately liquidambar and you are greeted with exquisite
grace. I can point out in the old woods here at home the counterparts of
many a man I know. The lonely wild apple on a gravelly knoll is as
crabbed as my crusty neighbor who begrudges me a few flint arrow-heads.
I think I should be soured by wandering half a day in a forest of
wild-apple trees. There is no such feeling when with the oaks, beeches,
chestnuts, and silver birch. They recall no unfortunates among one’s
acquaintance. Every tree of them is content with the world as it finds
it, and so too am I when surrounded by them.

The woods were quiet when I entered. Not a twig trembled, and the dead
leaves were too limp to crackle beneath my feet. Dainty frost crystals
were plentifully strown over the dwarfed bushes by the roadside, and a
film of glittering ice with jagged sides reached out from the banks of a
little brook near by. Nowhere did the ice reach wholly across the
stream, and so was the more beautiful by reason of the inky waters that
flowed sluggishly beneath it.

Where, about the roots of a massive beech, the brook had become a little
pool, I stood for many minutes, alternately watching the waters that
here seemed roused to a semblance of activity, and then listening to the
welcome cawing of the over-flying crows. Brooks, birds, and trees! Your
choice of such good company, and yet there are those who would have gone
mad here from loneliness! For the time I gave heed to the brook,
wondering as usual what might be beneath the surface, and all the while,
as ever happens, the creatures of the brook were wondering about myself.
If one turns to the text-books he will find much said of the instinct
that leads the lower forms of life to seek a safe shelter as winter
approaches. The lower forms of life in this brook had no such intention.
First, I detected dainty little frogs—the peeping hylodes—squatted on
dead leaves and yellow pebbles, and so spotted, splotched, and wrinkled
were they that it took sharp eyes to find them. Their idea of a shelter
in winter is from enemies, and not from the frosty air; a little warmer
sunshine to-day would have moved them to sing. Time and again during
November they rattled and “peeped” almost as shrilly as ever in April,
and they will again, if we are treated to a green Christmas.

The spirit of exploration seized me now, and I brushed the shallow
waters with a cedar branch. Lazy mud minnows were whipped from their
retreats, and a beautiful red salamander that I sent whizzing through
the air wriggled among the brown leaves upon the ground. It was only
after a hard chase that I captured it, and, holding it in my hand until
rested, I endeavored to induce it to squeak, for it is one of a very few
that has a voice; but it was not to be coaxed. It suffered many
indignities in silence, and so shamed me by its patience that I gently
placed it in the brook. Soon, black, shining whirligigs—the
gyrinus—suddenly appeared, and a turtle, as if wondering what might be
the cause of the commotion, thrust its head in the air, stared angrily
at me, and returned to its hidden home. There was no dearth of life in
the brook, yet this is a winter day. The ground is frozen, and the
rattle of wagons upon the highway penetrates even to this remote recess
in the deep woods.

As a child soon tires of one toy, so I longed, after an hour’s play, for
a new field and other forms of life, and so much for serious study as
that I might vary my amusement; but let not this apparent aimlessness be
held unworthy of the rambler. Call it play, if you choose, but the
incidents of such a day come back in bold relief when, with or without
an effort, they are recalled. I have found it most fortunate that
unconscious cerebation is so active when I wander about, toying, as here
by the forest brook, with many forms of life. More than half the acts of
every creature I meet are apparently meaningless at the moment of their
occurrence, but their full significance is evident when in thought I
wander a second time over the same ground. Scarcely regarded incidents
come well to the fore and throw a flood of light upon what lacked at the
time any evidence, on the creature’s part, of complicated thought.

Herein, I think, lies the secret of so much disappointment when some
people—and they are many—wander in the fields. Filled with enthusiastic
desire upon laying down the teeming pages of Thoreau and Burroughs, they
expect to see with another’s eyes and appreciate with another’s brain.
They see a bird, a mammal, or a host of butterflies, and then ask
themselves upon the spot, Well! what of them? The bare fact of their
presence is all that the minds of inexperienced ramblers encompass. The
wild life they have met excites a passing thrill and they give no
further heed to it. And it never occurs to many to recall the incidents.
Being a bit disappointed then, why give heed to the subject later? On
the contrary, if at the close of the day, in the hills and hollows of
the blazing wood upon the andirons, if the walk was in winter, we
picture the scenes of the recent ramble, these same birds or mammals, or
whatsoever else we saw, will be seen again in a new light. Why those
birds and not others were where we found them; why the field-mice or
rabbits or a weasel were where we saw them or it, will become evident.
The various features of every visited spot will be remembered; and the
cheery blaze upon the hearth tells us, as it were, the story that could
not be read when facing Nature’s open page. Some of us inveterate
ramblers read more than others, when in the fields, but no one can
afford to trust to this alone. To extract the whole truth, the past must
be recalled again and again.

As I whiled away the time with the tenants of the brook, so I gave heed
to every passing bird, and what a strange panorama, as one kind after
another flitted by! The happy association of woods and water here, as it
attracted me, drew them to the spot, yet no one loitered long. The busy
brown tree-creeper traced the crannies of the wrinkled oaks; the
nuthatches followed, and their complaining squeaks seemed expressive of
disappointment that so little food was to be found. Was this true? Were
these little birds really complaining? It certainly seemed so. But how
treacherous is this impression of seeming so! Too often, I fear, the
rambler is content with it and goes his way convinced that what was
vaguely apparent was the truth, the whole truth, and nothing more nor
less. I hold it probably true that if every bird which found itself too
late was disposed to complain, there would be a vast deal more
quarreling than actually occurs. How little contention there is in the
bird-world! While it is true that birds of a feather flock together, it
is equally so that widely different species also amicably associate, and
flagrant is the act that calls for punishment. Better luck next time is
the homely proverb that actuates all non-predatorial bird life.

But the merit of birds is their suggestiveness. Promptly following the
nuthatches came the ever-welcome song-sparrow. It hopped, with
springtide liveliness, among the dead leaves near the brook, and then,
flying to a hazel bush near by, it sang that sweet song that not even
the mocking-bird ventures to repeat. The woods vanished, and the old
garden with its gooseberry hedge was before me. I was a wondering child
again, listening and looking at the happy bird, happy as itself.

It is December, the day is cold, the trees are leafless, the ground
frozen; but not a thought of all this had clouded my joy for half a day.
There is the elixir of perpetual summer even in the woods in winter, and
happy is he who can find it.




                             Old Almanacs.


It is a dilapidated outbuilding now, and the merest ghost of its former
self. Scarcely one of the many marked features of the old kitchen is
left. The cavernous fireplace, the corner cupboard, the narrow box
staircase, the heavy double doors, with their long strap hinges, the
long narrow table by the south windows, have all been removed. And sad,
too, to think that, one by one, the sturdy farmer folk that lived in and
loved this now dark and dingy room have all passed away. For me, it is
the Mecca to which I most fondly turn when indulging in retrospection.
In and about it were passed many of those peculiarly happy days, the
recollection of which grows brighter as the years roll by. From late
autumn until spring, when for five months the nights were long, this
kitchen was the favorite rendezvous, and conversation, rather than
reading, the popular amusement. Not that there were no books in the
house. There were fifty volumes, at least, in the old book-case, but I
can not recall one in the hands of a reader. There are many of them now
on my own shelves—Gibbon, Johnson, Goldsmith, Burns, and the journal of
many a Quaker of colonial times. It would be unfair to say that books
were unpopular, but rather that conversation was held in higher esteem.
Then, certainly, every neighborhood had its characters, and their like
has not been transmitted to the present generation. I saw the last of a
native folk who had occupied my neighborhood since 1680. Now a new
people, and as different as black from white, occupy the land; but
during my early childhood, my grandfather’s help, like himself, had
always lived in the neighborhood. They had been boys together, and
little wonder that, when a day’s work was done, the evening should have
been spent in reminiscent talk. The farmer was not off to his book at
candle-light, and the “hands” left to their thoughts.

How glad, now, am I, that I caught, even in early youth, a glimpse of
simpler times! In one way, however, the world has not changed;
conversation continually turned upon the weather, and there was one book
to which reference was often made and quite frequently consulted—the
almanac. How plainly I can see my grandfather adjust his heavy-rimmed
spectacles and turn to the record of the current month! “Yes, thee is
right, Abijah; the moon changes in the forenoon.” Then the thin pamphlet
was hung again in its place in the chimney corner. Hard-headed and
alertly observant as were the farmers of fifty years ago, they all
deferred to the almanac’s dictum. Men might say, perhaps, what they
pleased; but if he who could write an almanac ventured to predict, who
were they to dispute it? So they thought, and if snow had been foretold
for the Fourth of July, they would have explained the reason why it did
not come, and pity, not scorn, the prophet.

I do not know when the first almanac was hung in the chimney corner, but
the custom, once started, continued to the end, and when the kitchen was
dismantled, a great pile of “Poor Richards” were brought to light from a
dark hole in the cavernous corner cupboard. The wisdom crowded upon
those torn and tattered pages seems to have been lost, and the later
generations were content, if I do not misunderstand them, with the
commonplaces and predictions to which reference has been made. But with
all their unquestioning reliance upon the almanac, the men who were
daily out of doors were prophets unto themselves, and proud of the petty
discoveries they claimed to have made. This it was that spiced their
conversation and made the meeting of two or three in a cozy kitchen an
attractive occurrence to young ears. I do not wonder that books were
ignored, when every laboring man laid claim to peculiar knowledge, and,
of course, formulated weather proverbs, the like of which have never got
into print. For while the neighborhood had, like all others, its common
stock of accepted “sayings,” not a man for miles around but had some two
or three that he had framed for his own guidance. Every discussion
teemed with “according to Joshua,” or “Jeremiah’s saying is,” but every
man was largely a follower of himself. Looking backward, and studying my
grandfather’s “help,” and even my farmer neighbors, I see, in the light
of the present, that these men were both ignorant and wise; having a
rich store of facts from which they drew illogical deductions.

Apropos of this, let me add that of a series of sixteen newspaper
clippings, from papers published in October and November, 1889, fifteen
of them were predictions of a winter of unusual severity in the Middle
States. The one that maintained the coming of a mild winter gave no
reasons for such a conclusion, but stated very briefly that “certain
never-failing signs pointed that way.” It is a pity that such signs were
not generally known, now that the “ground-goose, hog-bone” theory has
proved unreliable.

And so it was, a year earlier. During the autumn of 1888, I gathered, by
the aid of several friends, a considerable number of newspaper clippings
concerning the character of the coming winter. Most of them predicted a
very severe season and a late spring; a few were somewhat more moderate
in the use of superlatives, and one long essay on the breast-bone of the
goose made me shiver to read, although the day was warm, and in spite of
the assurance that each of the “phenomenally cold periods” would be
alternated by “spells of fall-like weather.” Not one hit the nail upon
the head and foretold that December and January would be winter with
winter left out. And only to-day (January 31) I find in a local paper
that the musk-rats are stopping up the entrances to their homes, and
February will be very cold. Perhaps! On the other hand, I have just
received Volume I of the Geological Survey of New Jersey, in which is a
most interesting chapter on the climate of this State. Looking over a
tabulated statement of the weather, as characteristic of seasons, I find
that we have had six notably mild winters in the past forty years, that
of ’81-’82 being “one of the warmest on record.” Armed with these facts,
I hunted up our oldest neighbor, Zephaniah Blank, and plied him with
questions. Of course, as I intended, the conversation turned upon the
weather, as it usually does, and he was very positive that we had had no
such winter as the present for “nigh on to thirty years.” The old
gentleman could recollect the moderately warm winter of ’57-’58, but
that of ’81-’82 had passed from his mind. Had a reporter overheard our
talk upon the subject, the local paper would doubtless have recorded the
present as the warmest winter in thirty years, which is not the fact.
Besides, we are not yet out of the woods, for February is often very
cold, and March, to put the best face upon it, exceedingly tricky.
Considering that weather is the most talked-of of subjects, is it not
strange that upon no other is so much ignorance displayed?

It has been said that every man is a fool or a physician at forty.
Whether true or not, every sexagenarian hereabouts is a weather prophet,
and their combined wisdom is, as might be seen, valueless. Every one of
these worthy men, as such, is a delusion and a snare, but all have
faithful followers. Uncle Zephaniah, for instance, was very impatient,
to express it mildly, when I spoke of the winter of 1881-’82. The curl
of his lip, the glitter of his eyes and wave of his hand, when he
remarked, “As if I didn’t know!” spoke volumes. Yet, in spite of his
eighty years, he did not know. There is still another feature of weather
wisdom, if I can call it such, that is even more remarkable—the
proneness to forget the character of a season so soon after it has
passed. It may be hard to believe, but many a person will stop to think
when the question is put whether the great March blizzard was last year
or the year before. Unless such a storm is coupled with some political
event or a great disaster, as fire or shipwreck, it passes almost
directly out of mind, and its magnitude dwindles in comparison to some
lesser event with which the world’s history was connected. And the moral
of all this is: keep a diary, swear only by it, and give nothing more
than a respectful hearing to unlettered historians and weather prophets.

But if the people have changed, the country has not; and from the same
woodland almanac from which they drew their facts we can draw ours. Can
any one read it aright? Verily, is not Nature a tricksy author? There
are the flowers that many a town dweller thinks truly report the
seasons. Pshaw! Away up in Massachusetts, Bradford Torrey found over
seventy plants in bloom during a November afternoon; and full well I
know of a meadow where violets, bluets, dandelions, and blue-curl can be
gathered, even at Christmas, and all the year round, when we have, as
now (1889-’90) a typical open winter.

What of the birds? For of these and blossoms is a naturalist’s year made
up. The woodland almanac goes for little so far as they are
concerned—unless, indeed, you have a trained ear for varying twitters.
Bird music is never lacking, and I have long held it an open question if
we may not spare the thrush, when there are foxy-sparrows among the
briers. So far as weather is concerned, we can not build upon our birds,
and no one of our seasons lacks them. It is the whim of closet
ornithologists and petty critics to assert that winter is comparatively
birdless, but even this is not true. There are not so many species, but
often quite as many individuals, and oftener more. Birdless, indeed!
Redbirds, meadow-larks, song-sparrows, and blue jays at this moment are
making merry in my garden. Notwithstanding all this, there will always
be those who will strive to the end to decipher the woodland almanac,
and where is he who claims not to have solved its meaning? It were well
if every one spelled over a few pages of it every day. It is healthy
exercise, fitting one to duties of all kinds, and never tending to sour
the temper of a sane person if, at the close of threescore years and
ten, he finds that he is sure of but the first lesson—there are four
seasons. Weather wisdom, as we all know, meets us at every turn, and
while usually irritating, occasionally proves a source of amusement.
Some such experience as the following, may have been the fate of many
more than I suppose.

John Blank is one of those unfortunates who desire to be thought a
genius. To float with the current is beneath his dignity. Uz Gaunt
described him well as one who persists in looking toward the west to see
the sun rise. Knowing my love for the open fields, this would-be genius
has kindly treated me, of late, to innumerable accounts of recent
observations of beasts, birds, reptiles, and wild life’s less noble
forms, and certainly the man has remarkable powers in one direction—he
can misinterpret admirably. “Think of it!” he exclaimed excitedly; “here
it is December, and I have heard a frog croak! It was not a springtime
croak, of course, but a cry of pain, and I believe a musk-rat dug it out
of its winter quarters, and the sound I heard was a cry of pain.” It is
a wonder that he did not hear the musk-rat’s chuckle over a good dinner,
also. Here we have three assumptions—that frogs never sing in winter;
that they habitually hibernate; and that musk-rats dig them out of the
mud. The aforesaid John Blank had lived forty-odd years on a farm, and
did not know that frogs voluntarily sang or croaked during mild winter
days. Like many another, finding that it is cold in December, he turns
his back on winter sunshine.

Here are some statistics concerning frogs in winter. Previous to Oct.
20, 1889, there had been white frost, some chilly days as well as
nights, and yet the frogs sang merrily on that date. There was frost,
snow, and ice during the following week, and then these same frogs were
again in full chorus; and later, in November, as late as the 19th, they
rattled and piped, not only in the sheltered marshes, but among the
wilted stalks of lotus in an exposed upland field. Then a long interim,
when I was constantly in town, but at noon, December 19, I heard them
again, and on Jan. 12, 1890, frogs of at least two species were
croaking; and, too, bees were about, snakes were sunning themselves,
turtles crawled from the mud, and salamanders squatted on dead oak
leaves in the full glare of an almost midsummer sun. When John Blank was
told of this he looked his name; but he was not disconcerted. “Did you
ever examine the marshes in winter?” I asked.

“Certainly not,” he replied, and added: “What’s to be found in frozen
mud, cold water, and about dead grass?”

“More life than you ever saw in midsummer,” was the impatient reply, and
with this I moved off.

Blank maintained his reputation and declined to take a hint. “Did you
ever see wild violets at Christmas?” he asked. I laughed, and assuming
good-nature, said, “Come along,” and started with the conceited nuisance
to a sheltered meadow. The grass was not dead, although Christmas was at
hand; there were even green leaves on the sassafras sprouts; the water
was not cold, although its surface had been frozen; the mud was very
soft. Clustered about the roots of a noble tulip tree were claytonias in
bloom; in the moist meadows were pale-blue violets, and beyond, exposed
to the sweep of every chilly breeze from the west, were houstonias, and
scattered here and there were single dandelions. “This,” I remarked, “is
no unusual matter, referable to midwinter, and ought to be familiar to
you; but you have probably not looked in the proper places for these
things”; and, taking my cue from dear old Uz Gaunt, added, “don’t look
in the west to see the sun rise.”

Then, pleading an engagement with solitude, I bade John Blank
“Good-morning.”

The landscape lightened as the bore disappeared. And how an hour’s
outing with nature soothes the irritation of an unwelcome interview! If
I were an editor, I would have a cage of frogs, with a bit of green moss
and a pool of water like that now at my elbow. To this I could turn for
mental refreshment the moment the retiring intruder faced the door of
the sanctum. There is nothing so reviving as to contemplate a frog, or,
better yet, a tree-toad. Here is one from Florida that takes the world
philosophically. When it is too cool on the shady side of his home he
creeps to the sunny side; and as the sun will not stand still, the toad
moves with it; This seems too trivial to mention, but really is not.
There are people in my neighborhood who growl because the sun does not
shine through the north windows, and more than one old farmer who
persists in shivering in the wagon-house, under protest, of course,
while the woodshed is warm and sunny. There is a chance for every man
born in the world, but this same world is not to be molded to every
crank’s convenience. Even my tree-toad knows that a fly may be on the
wrong side of the glass for him; although it took months of vain bumping
of his precious head before the idea reached his brain, and even now he
sometimes forgets the lesson so painfully learned. On the other hand,
there is little reason to believe that John Blank will look in the sunny
meadows next year for belated blossoms. If he finds one by accident in a
corner of a cold upland field, it will be heralded as a great discovery.

There is another tree-toad in the frog-pen that is a happy philosopher.
Of late, either the food offered is not the proper sort, or the creature
habitually fasts at this time of year, which is not improbable. Be this
as it may, there is no giving way to despondency because of an empty
stomach, and when his companions are taking noonday naps, or recalling
the outer world that once they knew, this little fellow, from the door
of his mossy cave, or perched upon a dead twig near by, sings merrily.
There are doubtless some who would be stupid enough to declare it the
cry of despair; but there is no trace of trouble in the sound; no
tremulous quaver as though fraught with grief. It is the clear, joyous
exultation of supreme content, as we hear it in the woods during bright
October days. Again, perhaps those gifted with an ear for music would
call the tree-toad’s song a “squeak.” This matters not, for when that
tree-toad pipes his single note, I take an outing. My study walls
vanish; the hillside and meadow, the winding creek, rolling field, and
shady orchard are again, as of old, the playground of my rambling life.




                          A Quaker Christmas.


The winters seemed colder, whether they were or not, when I was a boy;
and some thirty years ago there was one Christmas week when it seemed as
if the glacial period had suddenly returned. There was snow on the
ground, and thick blue-black ice on the creeks and flooded meadows. One
had not to take a circuitous route to reach whatever point he wished,
and this to the boys of the neighborhood made the outdoor world more
attractive. Not an old hollow tree, even, in the treacherous swamps, but
could now be reached, and so the home of every owl, coon, or opossum,
was at every boy’s mercy. What, then, if it were cold! Boots and
overcoat were equal to every need, and the wide and wild world was
before us. There was a skeleton in my closet, nevertheless. Christmas
was approaching, but never a sign of it within the walls of the old
farm-house. For years it had come and gone with scarcely a mention made
of the fact; and now, having heard something of holiday festivities from
city cousins, I vowed I would revolutionize the family custom in one
respect. But how? A hundred plans came as if by magic, but each was
handicapped by impracticability—a condition of affairs that is very
common to most men’s maturer years. It must be a secret, of course. The
opposition would prove formidable indeed if the matter were openly
discussed. Never a Christmas had been celebrated for a full century in
the old house, and why now? But I was determined, and so it came about
that I had a merry Christmas.

It was a simple matter, after all; and how often it happens that, after
days of puzzling over the impossible, an easy solution of a difficulty
comes at the proper moment! When it was time to act, all was plain
enough. On one plea or another, I went from house to house, as if the
call was by mere accident, and made known my wishes to a judicious
member of each family visited. All agreed to broach the subject, and so
it resulted that two or more members of five families, each group in
blissful ignorance of his neighbor’s movements, determined to spend the
day with my grandfather. It was the first surprise party in that staid
Quaker neighborhood, and never before so merry a Christmas. Of course
the originator was all innocence; but the puzzled expression on his
grandfather’s face and the perplexity of the women-folk were fun indeed
to him. “There’s company coming,” I remarked, as a carriage turned in
the lane. “Sure enough!” remarked my aunt, who, turning to her sister,
added, “And there is almost nothing for dinner.” I grinned. Before the
first carriage drove up to the house, a second was in sight, and the
third was not far behind.

“Truly,” remarked neighbor A to neighbor B, “we did not expect to meet
thee here. We’ve been intending to drive over for some time, but the
work at home prevented.”

“And that is what I was about to remark; the same impulse has moved us
both.” A certain small boy smiled.

“This is quite a Christmas celebration,” the somewhat bewildered host
replied, and no sooner had the sound of his voice died away than
neighbor C was announced; and neighbors D and E followed in his wake. I
lingered to hear the result, but did not dare show myself. My face was
very red, for poor sedate grandfather was stuttering! “Really, truly;
this is, treally, ruly”—I heard no more, but made a dash for the back
yard. Unlucky dash! I collided with my portly aunt, and both sprawled
upon the entry floor. The company came streaming from the parlor, but
what came of it I never learned. I was up and away before the mystery
was solved. A rest on the far side of the barn finally restored me. Joy
and fear made it a merry and mad Christmas both, but the point was
gained. The monotony of winter farm-life was broken—very much broken, in
fact—for now the tables were turned, and voices were calling for me,
some in persuasive, some in authoritative, tones. At last I responded;
and oh! what relief, when the one thing needed was to run down chickens.
“How many?” I quietly asked, “a dozen?” It was an unfortunate question.
A glitter, full of meaning, flashed in the eyes of my portly aunt. She
held me responsible for the day’s excitement and extra labor, and I knew
it; but I grinned whenever I caught glimpses of the gathered neighbors,
who could not cease to wonder over the strange coincidence.

Dinner was served in due time. It took two tables to seat the guests,
and the old kitchen was full for once. All went well until the portly
lady, who still smarted from her fall, asked of me “what all this
meant?”

“What does what mean?” I asked in reply.

“That all these friends should happen here to-day?”

“How should I know?” I asked.

“Thee does know all about it,” the old lady insisted, and so a
confession was forced. What else could I do? Twenty curious faces were
centered upon me, and the truth came out.

“Never mind, never mind!” chimed in my good grandfather, at the proper
moment. “I was sure a committee was about to take me to task for some
offense, and as I have come off so well, so shall he.”

“That boy will make something some of these days,” remarked one
long-headed man; but, alas! his usual good judgment failed for once.
That boy, so far as he is aware, has not made much since then—much worth
the making; but has, no end of blunders.

Who cares? It was my first jolly Christmas and a complete success; and
would that the same season could once again be jolly!




                          A New Place to Loaf.


One must plow deeply nowadays to unearth novelty. The world has been
written up, and that which we now read is but the echo of some well-nigh
forgotten author. Many will be quick to question this, and battle for
their originality, but a few days of honest search on their part among
really old books will bring them to confusion. It is with living writers
as with the “oldest inhabitants” who declare they never knew such
weather—they had better not face statistics. Blooming orchards in
January are on record, and February roses gladdened our
great-grandmothers.

“Is there nothing more to be said?” I had been asking of myself as I
daily tramped about the farm, or, on rainy days, ruminated in the attic
in a forest of discarded furniture. The outlook, for a while, was
certainly discouraging, and then suddenly the hay-mow came to mind. As a
boy, I loved the hay-mow; how is it now, in my maturer years?

Spurred by the impulse of so bright a thought, I went to the stable, and
with old-timed suppleness clomb the straight ladder. What memories of
summer days in the meadows rushed in with the odor of the heaped-up hay!
A fancy, perhaps; but even the sweet-scented vernal grass that yearly
adds its charm to a single corner of one field seemed stored in the dark
loft. It matters not; that corner, with its wealth of bright blossoms,
the glittering sunshine of May’s perfect mornings, the song of nesting
thrushes, and the rose-throated grosbeak’s matchless song, were plainly
seen and heard. It mattered not that it was January instead of June, and
the shrill north wind whispered its well-nigh forgotten warnings—summer
reigned in the hay-mow. The noontide glare that webbed the dark with
trembling threads of light aided my fancy, and I reveled in day-dreams.

That was a painful pleasure when the past was measured, and forty years
marked off the distance between my first visit and the present. Would
life have appeared as rosy-hued could I have looked as far forward as
unto to-day? Perhaps not. And what of the retrospective glances that
dimly discern the timid child floundering then in the half-filled mow?
With what wonder were the darting swallows marked as they sped to their
nests upon the rafters, and then fled through a gaping chink to the
outer world! What mystery shrouded the hastening mice that ran across
the mow’s wide window-sill, squeaked as they met, and hurried on their
way! Why would they not stop and speak to the little child? Even then,
birds and mice gave rise to strange and painful thoughts, for why,
indeed, should they fear the child that longed to be their playmate?
That fancy has not fled unto this day. I love them now as then, and, no
longer wondering why they fear man, regret the fact almost as keenly as
in days gone by.

And later, when a sturdy lad—but lazy—what a favorite hiding-place when
there were distasteful tasks to be shirked! The rattle of a loose
shingle to-day became the familiar calling of my name when errands were
to be run, when the hated churn was ready, wood to be cut or burdens to
be carried. But, like all else that this world offers, the hay-mow was
not perfection. I paid dearly for my thoughtlessness more than once.
There was much evidence of a busy day about the house, some thirty years
ago, and at breakfast I imagined that I would be in demand; but to even
think of work upon such a perfect day for idling was painful, and, as
usual, I soon disappeared. But nature was perverse. Not a familiar nook
about the farm responded as it usually did. Even the trees were so
wrapped in their own affairs as to turn the cold shoulder. Everything
went wrong, and hours before noon I longed to be called. I listened for
some familiar voice or the regulation toot-toot of the dinner-horn. The
old roosters about the barn crowed in a bantering way, as if calling me
the foolish boy that I was. It was irritating beyond endurance, and so,
with the usual unreason of piqued youth, I crept into the hay-mow, and,
while smarting from self-inflicted pain, fell asleep. Hours passed, and
then, starting from a nightmare dream, I went sullenly to the house.
Every one smiled as I entered. What was the matter? Every one was
silent, but the secret could not be kept. A picnic party had called for
me. “It is so seldom thee hears me,” remarked my aunt, “that I did not
think it worth my while to call thee to-day,” and then every one smiled
exasperatingly. No dinner, no picnic, no appetite for supper; but my
eyes were opened.

It is the same hay-mow as forty years ago, when first I saw it; the same
as eighty years ago, when my father watched it building, and made it his
playground, if not a lazy lad’s refuge. Here is the same loose floor
that needs a thick mat of hay to render it safe to walk over, and, in
one sense, the same dusty festoons of cobwebs clinging to every corner;
while the roof, as of old, is starred with mud-wasps’ nests and dotted
with the swallows’ masonry. My father’s playground! Did he, too, I
wondered, often linger here, thinking much the same thoughts and
planning his life’s battles while idly resting on the hay? It is not
upon record, nor need be, but the old hay-mow bears testimony to his
one-time presence here. Flinging open the heavy shutter of the south
window, I glanced at the shining oaken sill and frame. Both were covered
with rudely carved letters, initials of many a lad long since grown to
manhood, and not one of them now living. How closely I was linked to a
long-gone past! In the bright sunshine of this January day there was no
trace of winter in the landscape. From my outlook I saw nothing of the
familiar fields and distant river so dear to my own boyhood, but that
wilder valley and more rugged fields that were the pet theme of my
father’s stories when he charmed his hearers telling of his youth. How
tame is the present when compared with what has been! What though the
world has wonderfully advanced, there is not for me, for one—and I voice
many another—aught in the present, or aught that imagination conjures up
as the possible future, that can charm as does the sweet calling back of
days gone by.




                    Round about a Spring in Winter.


We dwellers in the northern hemisphere naturally think of winter as
cold, and shudder at the idea of plunging into the water at this season.
The common demand is, if cold must be endured, let it at least be rid of
moisture. But all animals are not of this way of thinking. To avoid the
cutting blasts of the north wind, the stinging sleet, the pelting hail,
and driving snow, many a creature boldly plunges in or hovers about the
sparkling waters of every bubbling spring. The reason is, at such spots
there is a uniform and not low temperature.

The impression is well-nigh universal that the great majority of
animals, other than a few hardy birds, are asleep from autumn until
spring; that they are hibernating, as it is called. It is quite true
when we walk across an exposed field or follow a wood-path over some
high hill, such an impression will not be disturbed by anything that we
see or hear; but these are not the only routes open to us. Stroll along
the river shore, even when it is blocked with ice, and in the little
ponds of open water you will be pretty sure to see abundant forms of
life; but, better yet, stray over the meadows, where, in more senses
than one, perpetual summer reigns. Break the thick ice, if necessary,
that shuts from view the shallow pool, scoop up the dead pond weeds that
mat the soft mud below, and see how every bit of it teems with curious
life. The brilliant dragon-flies that darted so angrily about you last
summer dropped their eggs here in the water, and these, hatching,
produced creatures so widely different from their parents that few
people suspect any kinship. Veritable dragons, on a small scale, they
are none the less active because ice and snow have shut out the
sunlight. With their terrible jaws they tear to fragments in a moment
every insect within their reach.

Like the dragon-flies, better known perhaps as “devil’s
darning-needles,” there are many other insects that likewise spend their
early days in the meadow pools, and, as the collector will find, every
scoopful of mud and leaves will be tenanted by a range of forms, some
grotesque, others graceful, and all of abounding interest.

These curious creatures have not their little world to themselves. There
are many fishes continually plowing up the mud with their gristly
snouts, and ready to swallow every protesting wriggler that dares show
itself in spite of the nipping jaws. Whether the slim and slippery
salamanders, commonly called lizards, do the same, I do not know, but
they tunnel the mud and burrow under every heap of water-soaked leaves,
and are so active, be the weather what it may, that some nourishment
must be taken. And there are frogs; not one of them disposed to
exertion, perhaps, but none the less able to leap or burrow headlong in
the yielding mud the instant they suspect danger. During the present
winter I have even heard them faintly croaking at midday, but this, of
course, is quite unusual.

During January not a turtle need be looked for, sunning itself, however
warm may be the weather, but, like the other creatures I have named,
they are not asleep. In a shallow basin, lined with the cleanest of
white sand, through which bubbled an intermitting stream of sparkling
water, I recently surprised a mud-turtle poking anxiously about,
evidently in search of food. The creature had a lean and anxious look,
and its bright eyes meant mischief, as it proved, when I reached forward
to pick it up. I was bitten after a fashion, and therefore delighted,
for I had never before known these turtles to be snapping, and a
discovery, however insignificant, is truly delightful.

Active life, then, in many of its varied forms, can be found during the
winter in the mud, sand, and water of almost every spring, and this fact
very naturally has its influence round about the spot. There is no small
winter bird, sparrow, titmouse, wren, or creeper, that evidently prefers
the immediate surroundings of a spring to all other spots, but every one
of twenty or more delights to make daily visits to such a locality, and
the sight of the green growths that crowd the water’s edge prompts them
all to greater cheerfulness, I have thought, than when treading the
mazes of upland thickets or scanning the dreary outlook of a snow-clad
field. But yesterday, more like June than January, it is true, I stood
by a little spring that welled up from among the roots of an old maple,
to watch the movements of a minnow that had strayed from the creek near
by. While there a wee nuthatch came darting down from the trees and
perched upon a projecting root, scarcely an inch above the water. It sat
for a moment, like a fairy kingfisher, and then plunged into the shallow
depths with all the grace of an accomplished diver. More than this, as
it shook the glittering drops from its feathers upon emerging it sang
sweetly. This unlooked-for conclusion of its bathing frolic was the more
remarkable, as the ordinary utterance of the bird is anything but
musical.

There are large birds also that frequent the springs habitually in
winter, and the fact of their presence is of itself evidence that other
active animal life must also abound. I refer to herons, bitterns, and I
may add crows. The former two subsist almost exclusively upon frogs and
fish, while the latter are content with anything not absolutely
indigestible.

How vividly I can recall my astonishment when stooping once to drink
from a bubbling spring at the base of the river bluff a dark shadow
passed over me, and I sprang with such a sudden motion to my feet that I
lost my balance! A great blue heron, unheeding my presence or ignoring
it, was slowly settling down to the very spot where I stood, and had I
remained quiet it would have perched upon me, I believe. As it was, it
gave an impatient flirt to its whole body, showing annoyance and not
fear, and flew slowly down the river. Before I had wholly regained my
composure and had time to step aside, the huge bird returned, and at
once took its stand in the shallow water, as silent, motionless, erect
as a sentinel is supposed to be. This was many years ago, and I have
seldom failed to see them, sometimes many together, winter after winter
since. The moody bittern, on the other hand, is much more disposed to
migrate in autumn; but at least a single one is likely to be found on
sheltered hillsides, particularly where there are springs with marshy
areas surrounding them. I have learned this recently of these birds, and
either have overlooked them in years past, or it is a new departure for
them. It is not unlikely that the latter should be true. Our familiar
cat-bird is losing its migratory instinct very rapidly, judging from the
numbers that winter in the valley of the Delaware River. I have seen
several recently, and every one of them was in a green-brier thicket,
and feeding on the berries of this troublesome vine.

But if there were no green things in or about the springs in winter they
would be cheerless spots, after all, in spite of the many forms of
animal life that we have seen frequent them. The fact that it is winter
would constantly intrude if the water sparkled only among dead leaves.
Happily this is not the case. At every spring I saw—and there were many
of them—during a recent ramble there was an abundance of chickweed,
bitter-dock, corydalis, and a species of forget-me-not; sometimes one or
two of these only, and more often all of them; none in bloom, but all as
fresh and bright as ever a plant in June. Then, too, in advance of the
plant proper, we find the matured bloom of the skunk-cabbage—would that
it had as pretty a name as the plant deserves!—with its sheath-like
covering, bronze, crimson, golden, and light green, brightening many a
dingy spot where dead leaves have been heaped by the winds all winter
long. These fresh growths cause us to forget that the general outlook is
so dreary, and give to the presence of the abundant animal life a
naturalness that would otherwise be wanting.

And not only about the springs, but in them, often choking the channels
until little lakes are formed, are found many plants that know no summer
of growth and then a long interval of rest. The conditions of the season
are too nearly alike, and while in winter there is less increase, growth
never entirely ceases, and certainly the bright green of the delicate
foliage is never dulled. Anacharis, or water-weed, I find in profusion
at all the larger springs; if not, then callitriche, or water-starwort.
The latter is as delicate as the finer ferns, and often conceals much of
the water in which it grows, as it has both floating and submerged
leaves.

In both these plants fish, frogs, and salamanders and large aquatic
insects congregate, and are so effectually hidden that when standing on
the side of the spring basin a person is not likely to see any living
thing, and if the spirit of investigation does not move him he will go
away thinking animal life is hibernating, for so indeed it is set down
in many books. But it does not always do to plunge the hand in among the
weeds, and so try to land whatever may be tangled in the mass you pull
ashore. Some of the insects resent such interference by biting
severely—the water-boatmen, or _Notonectæ_, for instance—and they have
the advantage of seeing all that is going on in the world about them,
for they swim upon their backs.

A delicate and beautifully marked sunfish that is silvery white with
inky black bands across it is common in the Delaware tide-water meadows,
and is found nowhere else. Recently in a spring pool, where the flow of
water was almost stopped by aquatic mosses, _Hypnum_ and _Fontinalis_, I
found nearly a hundred of these fish gathered in a little space. All
were active, and so vigorous that an abundant food supply can be
presupposed; but I did not bring the microscope to bear upon this
question, and it is upon minute forms of life such as would be readily
overlooked by the casual observer that they subsist. But, as is
everywhere the case, these fish are not free from molestation, although
to the onlooker they seem to be dwelling in a paradise. There is a huge
insect, murderous as a tiger, that singles them out, I have thought,
from the hosts of more commonplace species which we can easily spare. It
is known as a _Belostoma_, and has not, so far as I can learn, any
common name. If they were better known they probably would have a dozen.
They are “wide and flat-bodied aquatic insects, of more or less ovate
outline, furnished with powerful flattened swimming legs,” and the front
ones are “fitted for seizing and holding tightly the victims upon which
they pounce.” When I found the timid banded sunfish huddled together in
the water moss I thought of the savage _Belostoma_ and hunted for them.
None seemed to be lurking in the moss, but just beyond, in an open space
where twigs had drifted and dead leaves lay about, I found two of them,
and I doubt not they were lying in wait, knowing where the fish then
were and that sooner or later some would pass that way. To determine by
means of crude experiments how far a water-bug has intelligence is a
difficult if not impracticable undertaking, but I can assure the reader
that the many I have watched in aquaria _seemed_ to be very cunning, and
constantly planning how they might surprise the fish, for these, on the
other hand, knew the danger of their presence, and shunned them in every
possible way.

It is much to be regretted, I think, that aquaria have fallen into
disrepute. They are not, as has been said, failures; but if the labor of
their care can not be undertaken, let him who would know more of common
aquatic life not fail to occasionally ramble round about the springs in
winter.




                           A Bay-Side Outing.


A cool, gray mist overspread the wide reach of meadows, and shut from
view the still wider reach of water beyond. The clouds were sullen, and
with each gusty sweep of sharp east wind were dashes of chilling rain.
The outlook was dismal; the more so that my companions and myself had
journeyed scores of miles to reach the Pleasantville meadows. Perhaps
the village itself was pleasant, but now its suburbs were forbidding.
Let me misquote Euripides:

                      What _the morning_ is to be
                      Human wisdom never learns.

So it proved; the east wind was soon tempered to three shorn lambs, the
sun peeped out upon us from time to time, and long before noon Nature
was smiling and contentment reigned.

That which most impressed me as I neared the water was the painful
silence that prevailed over all the scene. Not a sound save that of
one’s own footsteps was to be heard. The impression of an absolutely
deserted country, of a region that had been swept by a pestilence fatal
even to insect life, took strong hold of me; but only for a moment.
Presently, up from the tufts of tall grass rose, on every side,
whistling meadow-larks, filling the air at once with sweet sounds. How
my heart leaped, my cheeks tingled! With what eagerness I strove to
catch their every note! for dear to me now as, when a boy, the world
daily opened up a new scene of delights, is that old, ever-new refrain
of the meadow-lark—_I see you—you can’t see me_.

But I did see them. To the few scattered, stunted trees they flew, and,
perching at the very tops, were sharply limned against the pale-gray
sky. Did I exert some subtle influence over them? Whether or not, they
soon returned, and from hidden by-ways in the rank grass sang again and
again, to cheer me, while at work. For not as a rambler merely, but to
labor diligently, had I come so far.

Separated from the bay by a narrow strip of meadow, rises a little
hillock that tall weeds would have hidden. This was one of our objective
points; the other was an adjoining sand-ridge. Over the former we
proposed to search for whatsoever the Indians had left behind; into the
latter we proposed to dig, believing some of these people had been
buried there; all this we did. The little hillock was a shell-heap, or
“kitchen refuse-heap,” as they are called by European archæologists.
Probably nothing tells so plainly the story of the past as do these
great gatherings of burned and broken shells. So recent was every
fire-mark, so fresh the bits of charcoal, so sharp the fragments of
roasted shells, it would not have startled the relic-hunters had the
Indians filed past on their way to the adjoining fishing grounds; and
yet, when critically examined, this particular spot had evidently been
long deserted. Careful and long-protracted search failed to bring to
view any trace of other than most primitive Indian handiwork. One
patient searcher, in fact, had to content himself with a few flint
flakes and the tiniest bits of rude pottery; while another hunter was
more fortunate and drew from the side of a deep and narrow path a pretty
quartz knife; and later, two slender, shapely arrow-heads were found.

A beggarly show, perhaps, but what if our hands were not busy picking up
relics; our fancies were up and doing. We had evidences and to spare
that a primitive people had once dwelt here, and imagination supplied
all deficiencies as to the matter of when and why and of the manner of
their simple lives. Such ever is the charm of an outing like this. One
has to deal so continually with stern facts in every-day life that fancy
is the better company when out for a stroll. Nor need we deceive
ourselves. A bit of burned clay in hand means the primitive potter in
the near foreground. Given a single flake of stone, and the knife,
spear, arrow, and all their belongings are in the hands of men who stand
out boldly before us. Fancy within bounds is the twin-sister of fact,
but mischief brews when she oversteps the mark. An hour with potsherds
is monotonous. One longs for some more shapely trace of human handiwork,
but among heaps of broken and burned shells, these are not frequent.
Herein the kitchen-middens of the New Jersey coast differ, as a rule,
from the former village sites in the river valleys. It would appear that
the Indian’s life as a coast-dweller was simplicity itself. It meant the
mere gathering of food from the shallow water. No contrivances were
called for, so no specialized tools were left behind, and in their
annual pilgrimages to the coast, the inland people either took but
little with them, or were very careful to carry back everything they had
brought. No wonder, then, we grow restive when a richer harvest is
promised by the mere leaping of a fence. There, in a grassy field, it
was reported, Indians had been buried, and how exciting it is to know
that a skeleton may be brought to light by the mere turning of the sod.
It has been cruelly said that he who removes from the ground a recently
buried body is a ghoul, but if we wait until the flesh has decayed, then
the collector of dry bones becomes an archæologist. It is not a fair
statement; but whether true or not, we gave it no heed, but proceeded to
dig. Scanning each spadeful of dirt for traces of bones, we soon found
them, and all was excitement. Little by little, whole bones were exposed
to view, and, following these up with the greatest care, that first of
prizes to an archæologist, a skull, was secured. Later a second and a
third were found. Our day was full. No, not quite full. We knew that
often a bowl, trinkets, and a weapon or two were buried with the body,
but nothing of the kind was found. It was a matter of dry bones only,
unless we except the one instance where the upper shell of a large
turtle rested on one of the skulls. This was a cap that would scarcely
prove comfortable to a living person, although not without the merit of
being quite water-proof.

The longest summer’s day is all too short for such eventful outings; so
little wonder that the early setting of the sun in February prompted our
discontent. Who was ever satisfied in this world? He is a half-hearted
rambler, at best, that loves to quit such work; but the night came down
upon us, nevertheless. Silence brooded over the broad meadows, and the
larks that had cheered us until sunset ceased to sing. Could there have
been a happier combination? Meadow-larks and Indian relics; aye, even
the bones of the Indians themselves; to say nothing of a soft sea-breeze
and a clear sky.

Laden with valued spoils, we at last reluctantly drew near the village,
and would that it had been wrapped in Egyptian darkness! How the aged
villagers scowled at us as we passed by! The lame, the halt, the blind,
all came hobbling to the front windows of their homes and hurled silent
imprecations after us. What a sad ending to our happy day! and why,
forsooth? In our innocent zeal, we had disturbed the bones of a few
Indian fishermen that for centuries had been resting in perfect peace.
We, the irate villagers claimed, being in full possession of good
health, could withstand the fury of the outraged spirits of departed
red-skins, but not so the afflicted villagers. Every rheumatic crone
averred that her pains had grown to agony since we broke the sod.
Invisible arrows had whizzed by their ears, and more than one sufferer
had been struck, as the red marks upon their persons proved. Vengeance
had gone astray and sorely pressed the innocent; while the guilty walked
without shame through the long village street. This was indeed adding
insult to injury.

Speaking for myself, did I know the meaning of the word “impatience,” I
should have been vexed. As it was, the day deserved to be recorded in
red letters.

As a lover of quiet country strolls, I had been happy beyond measure,
but the way of the archæologist, it would seem, is beset with thorns.




                           Free for the Day.


             Free for the day! I scarce need tell the rest:
             An aimless youth again, and Nature’s guest.

If magic lurks in any four words of the queen’s English, it is to be
looked for here. Free for the day! Neither in books nor out of them have
I met with a phrase more full of meaning, one more comprehensively
suggestive. To me, eight weeks in the noisy city had seemed almost a
year, and at last came a pause in my occupation and a day to myself. No
decision could be reached in a reasonable time by calmly thinking the
matter over, so, closing my eyes, I spun myself on one heel, determined
to walk a good ten miles in whatever direction I faced when my whirling
body came to rest. Fortune favored me, for I found myself looking
directly toward the river. This put an end to my walking ten miles in a
bee line, for the river was not one mile distant, and, except at a
distant point, could not be crossed. With a light heart I made for the
river, and, reaching the shore, sat in a cozy nook where driftwood had
conveniently lodged. Walking is capital sport at all times, but a
comfortable outlook never comes amiss, and resting at the end of one
mile is as natural as at the end of a dozen. Thoreau speaks of looking
seaward while at Cape Cod and having all America behind him. I took my
cue from him, and, looking only down stream and not far beyond, saw only
the rippling waters. Every ripple carried its atom of the town dust from
my eyes, and in an hour I saw the world again with clear vision.
Something of the old self thrilled my veins, but still I was loath to
leave so sweet a spot. I had no promise of better things, and, though
early February, the wild words of an ancient chronicler came to mind.
Wrote a mendacious Englishman in 1648, of this river—the Delaware—that
it was “scituate in the best and same temper as Italy,” and goes on to
say, it “is freed from the extreme cold and barrennesse of the one [New
England] and heat and aguish marshes of the other [Virginia]”; all of
which is a (to put it mildly) mistake. And then the romancer adds, the
Delaware Valley “is like Lombardy, ... and partaketh of the healthiest
aire and most excellent commodities of Europe.” Then follows a bit of
nonsense about the wild beasts and agricultural capabilities. Why could
not those old travelers be truthful? There is not one but deals in
absurdities, and it would appear that they rounded off every paragraph
with a flight of the imagination. If his account be true, reindeer and
moose, as well as elk and deer, tramped these river shores but three
centuries ago, and the buffalo roamed over the Crosswicks meadows. This
is extremely improbable. Moose and reindeer bones have been found, it is
true, and even traces of the musk-ox, but all goes to show that it was
far longer ago than three centuries. That there are traces, too, of man
found associated with them goes for nothing. Such association does not
bring the now arctic animals down to a recent date in this river valley,
but places man in an indefinitely long ago. If there is any one fact
well established, it is the antiquity of man in America, and those who,
even in scientific journals, say the evidences so far are not
trustworthy, and all that, utter greater absurdities than the old
chronicler I have quoted.

A word more. If the author quoted had in mind such a winter as this,
perhaps he can not be held as intentionally wrong as to the climate; but
why need he have exaggerated? As if the round of the seasons in Jersey
could be better, when they are as they should be! The truth, two hundred
and odd years ago, would not have frightened a would-be settler; but
such a winter as this might. The present meteorological “flummux,” which
plays the fool with all animate nature, is what the old-time Indians
called _niskelan_—ugly weather; and they gave it the proper name.

But hang the whole crew of historians and scientists! this is my
holiday! The water is very blue to-day, very ripply, and flaked here and
there with a dainty bit of foam. This is running water at its best. It
smells sweetest now. And what an odor that is which rises from a broad
river! The essence of the mountains many a mile away, the ooze of the
black-soiled meadows over which I have just passed, the dead leaves and
brushwood, and, too, the grand old trees that line the river’s shore,
all give up some subtle perfume, which, mingling over the river, is
wafted to the shore. It intoxicates. Every breath indrawn thrills the
nerves and cleanses the city-soiled fibers of our being. But let no more
be said. As I stood, straight as a signal-light upon the shore, my eye
caught a strange mound of bleached driftwood in the distance, and
curiosity at once drew me toward it—a recently drowned cow that dogs had
torn. Such possible drawbacks warn one against enthusiasm as to country
odors. As for myself, I walked down stream, thinking new thoughts.

Having an odd fish in sight when by the river’s side, I am never lonely.
Odd fish are too plentiful in town; never a glut of them—the proper
sort—in the water. The average minnow is an endless source of amusement.
Its rough and tumble existence is encouraging to striving mortals. The
minnow’s ingenuity is hourly taxed to escape danger, yet never have I
seen one in despair. To-day was a red-letter one in this respect. Off in
a shallow pool, not two yards square, was a huge hump-backed minnow. Its
spine was as twisted as a corkscrew, and its locomotion as erratic as
lightning. How could such a fish secure its prey? was the question that
puzzled me; and, failing to hit upon a solution, I tried to capture the
fish for my aquarium. When one has neither net, line, nor other device,
fishing is uncertain, except with the professional liars. I tried
scooping with my hands, and have only to relate as a result that the
hump-backed minnow appeared to make a springboard of its tail and leap
over my hands with the grace and ease of a professional acrobat. After
several attempts on my part to circumvent the minnow, it suddenly
disappeared. I looked in vain for it all through the little pool. It had
gone. At last I stepped back to turn to new scenes, when the hump-backed
minnow leaped from a pebble on the water’s edge, with about the agility
of a frog! Of course, this will go the way of all fish stories; but I do
not mind telling it, for all that.

It is the unexpected that happens—a remark, by the way, that dates B.
C.—when the rambler has no particular quest in mind. I had almost
forgotten that birds were in existence, when a large one ran along the
pebbly beach, not more than a rod before me. It was a king-rail. With
the thoughtlessness characteristic of a half fool, I hurled a stone
after it, with the usual result of frightening it and so losing a golden
opportunity to observe a rather rare bird at a most unusual season. Why
will people be such ninnies? If a companion had been with me and
attempted this, I would have prevented him; yet, nine times in ten, I
give way to the unfortunate impulse to capture, if not destroy, the
rarer creatures I meet. Had I been born without arms, I would by this
time have become a naturalist. This tendency is due, without doubt, to
our non-human ancestry, but will we never outgrow it?

The king-rail is a noble bird, and a few haunt the marshes all summer
long, nesting where the tall grass is too rank and tangled even to tempt
a restless cow. Perhaps they have in mind the danger of meddlesome
mankind, and dwell in such spots accordingly. Taking the whole range of
bird life into consideration, it certainly would appear that birds give
a good deal of attention to such matters. And, before leaving the
subject, I will add that, to be intelligible in discussing birds’ ways,
one must assume that they have minds akin to ours; and this leads to the
suspicion on the part of some, and conviction in my own case, that the
birds’ mind and that of man are too closely akin to warrant much
distinction.

Birds, then, as usual, trooped to the fore as I rambled down the river.
I saw nothing else, yet not a bird was in view. The old histories came
to mind, and closed my eyes to other than an inner vision. “Greate
stores of swannes, geese, and ducks, and huge cranes, both blue and
white.” Is it not exasperating to think of the change wrought in two
centuries? A mile-wide river, and banks of old-time wildness still
remaining, yet not a feather rests upon the one or shadow of a walking
bird falls upon the other. Far and near, up and down, and high overhead
I scan the country for a glimpse of some one bird, but in vain. The
crows nowadays have the river to themselves, and none of these were
about to-day.

The day has been a marked one for its emptiness. Tracing the river’s
shore for miles ought to yield rich results, but here, at my journey’s
end, I am empty-handed. What little I have seen has but soured my
temper. It is most unwise to be ever mourning over the unrecoverable
past, but how can one avoid it? Such a walk, productive of nothing worth
recording, may not, I hope, be in vain. It at least provokes me to say,
Can not wild life, or what little remains of it, be effectually
protected? Can not swans, geese, and ducks be induced to return? They
can never prove an obstruction to navigation, so why should legislation
on this point be, as at present, a mere farce? The day will never come,
perhaps, when people who prefer a living to a dead bird will be
acknowledged as having a claim to the wild life that would appear to be
no man’s peculiar property. By an overwhelming majority, mankind hold,
if a creature is good to eat, it must be killed. But the insignificant
minority still feel they have a claim. I would walk twenty miles to see
a wild swan on the Delaware; my neighbor would walk forty if sure of
shooting it.

Water birds are safe on the Back Bay in Boston, and seem to know it. I
have watched them with delight, morning after morning, while dressing;
but here, miles from town, you may pass a week and see no trace of even
a duck. A few come and go, but there are men with guns lying in wait,
both day and night. Time was when there were wild fowl and to spare—not
so now; and the day is quickly coming when geese even will rank with the
great auk and the dodo.

It is probably not difficult to prove that a return ramble is less
suggestive, even if more objects cross our path than when we were
outward bound. At the close of a long day, we are, without suspecting
it, brain-weary, as well as physically tired. What interested us in the
morning falls flat in the evening; the mingled voices of many birds
roused enthusiasm at sunrise, and proved irritating at sunset. It was so
to-day. My one thought was to reach home, but not without lazily
thinking, as I retraced my steps. I discussed with myself, as often
before, that important question—how to see. Then, again, I have often
been asked the same question by various people. On one occasion, I
replied, “With your wits as well as your eyes.” But this does not cover
the ground. After all, how is a person to recognize a thrush from a
sparrow among birds, or a perch from a minnow among fishes? When the
question was last put, I found that I had but one course to pursue—to
admit that I could not tell. The occurrence was somewhat mortifying, and
I have, time and time again since then, endeavored to discuss, upon
paper, this very interesting subject.

The result, to date, is flat failure; but a history of nugatory effort
may prove of some value. Can it be done? Is there a secret, through
knowledge of which a young person or an inexperienced adult can be
taught to intelligently observe and correctly interpret the course of
nature? Are not those, in truth, who do see to advantage, and quickly
comprehend the purport of what they see, born with a faculty that can
not be acquired through any course of training? I believe this to be
true.

But, on the other hand, there are those who, though less favored, have
their interest aroused whenever out of doors; and these are spurred to
the acquisition of knowledge, however toilsome, because of the demands
of that interest. Such find the pursuit of natural knowledge far from
easy, but are compensated by the fact that “the play is worth the
candle.” With due modesty, I speak now from experience.

“How am I to know,” asked my friend, “that the bird I see or hear is
what it is?” I, for one, can not solve the problem. Certainly, even if
our language was adequate to describe the appearance, voice, and habits
of a bird, for instance, so accurately that it would instantly be
recognized, it is not to be expected that any one, save a professional
naturalist, will know our ornithology by heart; and even he falls very
short of that. In hopes of simplifying the matter, I have been
endeavoring to recall my own experiences; not that I am a trained
observer, but because I can not remember when I did not know the more
common objects of wild life that I met with. This knowledge—a life-long
source of pleasure—was acquired at an early age, probably because I had
a naturalist-mother, who correctly explained the little mysteries that
perplexed me, and, above all, taught me to be considerate toward and
respect the rights of every living creature. So it happened that I came
to love even every creeping thing; and with love came knowledge. But the
names of things! Until he knew its name, Thoreau looked upon a flower,
however beautiful, as a stranger, and held aloof. Certainly one feels a
great lift in his pursuit of knowledge as soon as he learns the name of
an object; and until then, however interesting that object may be, it
baffles him. Let the observer, if an adult, remember, and the child be
assured, that every creature has a name, and that it can sooner or later
be determined; and now what remains is to so closely examine it that,
when opportunity affords to describe it to a specialist, or a
description is found in a book, the creature will at once be recognized.

Years before I had access to Audubon’s or Wilson’s American Ornithology,
I was delighted, one summer day, with a large bird that played bo-peep
with me in the orchard. I watched it carefully, studied to repeat its
cries, and then attempted to describe it. The bird was pronounced a
creation of my imagination, and my labors rewarded with a lecture on
romancing; but long afterward I recognized the bird in a museum, and
found that I had seen a rare straggler from the Southern States. But
nothing of all this bears much, if any, upon my friend’s question, and
no definite conclusion has, perhaps, been reached; so I put myself in my
friend’s place, and ask, Will some one give me the information required?
The more the question, as originally put, is conned over, the more it is
like unto asking, How do we learn to talk? Let there be a desire for
knowledge, and the problem will solve itself. And as to natural history,
the earnest observer will invent names for objects, which will serve his
purpose until he learns those, as in time he will, by which they have
been recognized by others and are in common use. He who does this will
have taken the first and most important step, and all that follows will
be pleasure rather than toil.

Another phase of this subject is that of properly observing. Do we
always “see straight”? I prefer this homely phrase in putting the
question, because I was so often asked, when reporting the results of
youthful rambles, “Did you see straight? Are you sure?” And so the
familiar questions come to mind now: Have the summer tourists seen
straight? Was everything they saw really as they saw it? “Can I not
believe my own eyes?” is the usual reply. It is the commonly accepted
opinion that we can, certainly; but may not many an error arise from
such testimony? Undoubtedly; but, on the other hand, if the sight-seer
is really anxious to learn the exact truth, if he guards himself
continuously against false impressions, the danger is comparatively
slight, and diminishes to practically nothing by repetition of
observation. It must be remembered, too, that an occurrence may be very
rare, and, if observed by one not familiar with the ordinary conditions,
he may be misled so far as to suppose it not unusual; but it is far from
justifiable to assert that he did not “see straight.”

This is particularly true in the study of nature; by which is meant, at
this time, the observation of objects, animate and inanimate, as they
are and where they belong, not the study of “specimens” taken from their
proper places. If a bird is seen out of season, or out of place, or
copies the song and manners of a far different species, the observer is
not true to himself if he withholds a statement as to the fact, although
others may not have been so fortunate as to witness this; and no less
imperative is it to express his opinions and give his own
interpretations of what he sees. To say that it is indiscreet to set his
“unsupported opinion against the facts gathered by a host of observers”
is simply absurd. To fail to speak out boldly is miserable cowardice;
and he who advises silence because an honest conviction wars with
others’ opinions is contemptible. Evidently, having no opinions or
knowledge of his own, he champions the cry of the crowd, be it right or
wrong. When a friend returns from a distant land, or even from a walk in
the country, we do not ask concerning what we have often seen for
ourselves, or know from hearsay, is a feature of the land, but of those
peculiarities that particularly impress him, and his personal
adventures; and, by proper questioning, a dozen ramblers over the same
area will tell as many different stories. If every observer or traveler
was a mere cataloguing machine what a cool welcome would each receive on
his return from an outing.

How are we to know whether or not we “see straight”—whether or not we
correctly interpret? Time alone will decide this; adding thereto the
experiences of others. From the sum total of many observers will
ultimately spring the truth, if happily we shall ever possess it; but no
one experience must be suppressed. I saw the Niagara River recently
where it is crossed by the suspension bridge, and the water was
intensely black save where flecked with snowy foam. I had seen this
river at this same spot previously, and had seen it since, and always,
except this one instance, the water was deeply blue or brilliantly
green. It may never have been black before, and may never be so again,
but this has no bearing upon the fact that once, at least, that torrent
was as a torrent of ink. And so it certainly is in one’s observations of
animal life, if one is a persistent, painstaking observer. His
experience will teem with unique occurrences; but they are none the less
valuable and worthy of record because of their character.

We hear now and then of misconception of nature—some pretentious critic
assuming that another sees what is not to be seen, hears what is not to
be heard, and attributes to the lower forms of life faculties beyond
their capabilities. By what authority comes this—provided absurdity does
not enter into the case? Has the whole region of the United States been
so ransacked by a handful of professionals that the habits of every
living creature other than man are known even to the minutest details?
If so, where is this vast store of learning garnered? It must still be
religiously guarded by this same handful. The world at large knows this
is nonsense. There have not been enough facts gathered to enable one to
more than conclude tentatively. A botanist, not far away, remarked in my
hearing that he had tramped over the whole neighborhood in search of
sun-dews. He was positive that none grew within miles of his home.
Another, with keener vision, tramped the same ground, and found them in
abundance. A host of careful, earnest, and devoted observers may be
unsuccessful, but that does not prove that some one may not succeed
where the others failed; nor can the animadversions of the critical
alter the fact that some one has succeeded.

Have any of those who have spent the summer in the country amused
themselves by watching some one animal as it was busy with life’s cares?
I hope so; and while so doing, was the creature credited with
intelligence or blind instinct? I trust with the former. But “Stay!”
shouts the critic, “do you realize the danger of loose interpretation?”
How are we to decide whether or not an animal thinks as we do? Hereon
hinges the whole matter. Obviously, it can never be demonstrated with
what may be called mathematical certainty; but the average, unbiased
observer will admit that when a creature acts under given circumstances
precisely as he would do, that the brain directing those movements is
essentially such a brain as his own. To prove that it is something else
is left with those who deny the position that I take. Animals think;
they are not mere machines; this position is as rational as to claim it
of some of the lowest existing races of mankind, for the claim is laid
upon the same class of occurrences. To wander abroad, whether in the
forest or on the plain, and not to look upon animate creation as endowed
with intelligence—of course, of varying degrees—is to go, not as an
observer in the true sense, but as one deaf and blind. To ramble with
this conviction, one will not misread the book of nature, and so be
guilty of a literary crime if he gives his story to the world.




                            An Open Winter.


I have heard or read that one may experience a sense of weariness when
surrounded by the best that Nature has to offer—a cloying with too many
sweets, as it were. It seems hard to believe, so rejoiced is the average
rambler at the return of spring, but that it is true has recently dawned
upon me, here in the wilds of Jersey, after some six weeks of merely
nominal winter.

Wherever there is a little shelter from the occasional north winds, the
immediate outlook is suggestive of early April, but the growing
daffodils and blooming hunger-plant, dead-nettle, chickweed, spring
beauties, violets, and dandelions, do not give us a springtide
landscape, although columbine, giant hyssop, motherwort, self-heal,
yellow corydalis, alum root, false mitrewort, and star of Bethlehem, are
all green in the sheltered nooks, and the waters of many a spring-basin
glow as emeralds with their wealth of aquatic plant life. It avails
nothing that these springs and outflowing brooks teem with fish, frogs,
salamanders, and spiders; nor does it matter that the sun gives us
summer heat and that birds throng the underbrush as in nesting days;
still it is winter. This is the crowning fact that colors every thought,
and though we can not step but we crush a flower, winter will not be
ignored. Nor would I have it so. January has its merits as well as June,
and I hail with pleasure that spot where frost has gained a foothold.
Here is one such spot; a circle of dead weeds bordering one of moss, and
blackberry canes in rank profusion arising as an oval mound within all.
It is an odd-looking spot to-day, and sure to attract attention. It is
unlike the average clump of briers, and properly should be, as it is the
sorry monument to a giant that for century after century dwelt here in
glory. It was my good fortune to know him well, but my misfortune to be
too young to assume the role of historian. Here stood the Pearson Oak.
Perhaps my learned botanical friends may take exceptions, but I hold
that this tree was nearly, if not quite, one thousand years old. How the
Indian looms up when we think of such a tree! Here was a silent witness
to the every-day life of an Indian village that in part rested in the
mighty shadows that it cast. And later, from one huge limb dangled the
rude pole swing that was the delight of the first of my people born in
America. Being the most prominent feature of the neighborhood, this oak
was brought within the boundary line of two great plantations, and the
half acre beneath its branches was the common playground of two
families. Little wonder, then, that in time it was also common courting
ground. Indeed, the phrase common in several families now, referring to
engaged couples, “under the oak,” has reference to this tree and the
engagements that arose from frequently meeting there, during the first
half-century after the place was settled.

But what has this to do with winter? Nothing, perhaps, but it seemed
fitting that a film of ice should cover the little pool in the circle,
as frost had blighted every shrub about, when recalling that long-gone
past that seems to us so rosy-hued when comparing it with the present.
Ruin is stamped upon every feature of the landscape here, and it is well
that the old oak that witnessed more mirth than sadness should have
passed away.

To those who can walk eight furlongs and see only a milestone, winter
may be a dreary season: but Nature at rest, for those who love her, is a
sleeping beauty. Again, if it so happens death is everywhere about you,
it should not prove repulsive. Death is the law of life, and not a
flower in June can boast greater beauty than the empty seed-pods of many
a decaying plant. Shudder, if you will, at the word “skeleton,” but
handle that of many a creature or plant, and enthusiastic admiration is
sure to follow. In June, we glory in the deadly struggle for existence
that everywhere is raging; charmed by the flaunting banners, the music,
the “pomp and circumstance of glorious war”; why not then be rational
and cull beauty as well as profit from the battle-field when the
struggle is over? If a shrub is beautiful clad in motley garb, should
not its filmy ghost in silvery gray merit a passing glance?

So ran my thoughts as I crossed my neighbor’s field, seeking new traces
of frost’s handiwork, but here I failed. The general aspect was wintry,
but definite results of wintry weather could not be found. Even on cold
clay soil dandelions bloomed, and tissue-ice in the wagon ruts had no
discouragement for the grass that bordered it. To sum up the result,
rambling in January during such winter as this is not attractive, unless
one is carried away by the novelty of plants blooming out of season, or
hearing sounds when he expected silence. And a word here of winter
sounds. Except immediately before a snow-storm, the country is never
silent. Here and there, the fields may be deserted, but birds are
somewhere, and these, of both sexes, can not keep quiet long. Of our
winter birds, it can be said that they are essentially noisy, and chirp
more, if they sing less, than birds in summer; and in the anomalous
condition of the outdoor world, at present it was a relief to reach a
hedge with its complement of birds. Their listless chirping now recalled
days with the mercury near zero, when, defying the keen wind from the
north, they sang a hearty welcome to the season and hailed every
snow-squall as a gift from the gods. Nowhere else, however, and I walked
several miles, were birds to be found, save here and there a solitary
crow, and the conclusion is, that such a season drives off rather than
attracts certain species, while others having no incentive to migrate,
have not wandered this far south. I do not know what the result of
observation in general has been, but certainly over my own rambling
ground birds have been noticeably scarce. Flowers out of season are no
compensation for the losses that a thoroughly open winter brings upon
us; the more so, if an open winter lessens the number of our birds.

As the sun rose to-day, the thought “what splendid weather!” was
uppermost, and, impelled by it, I struck across lots for the
uncultivated nooks that are so pitifully few near by. The result has
been given—not a single satisfactory feature in the whole range of half
a dozen miles. A little here and there to wonder over, disappointment at
nearly every turn; more, many more somber than merry thoughts; and not
one successful effort at thinking any thought to a logical conclusion.
To what is this due? Without doubt, to the “open” season. Nor is it
strange. In no respect is nature soul-satisfying when unseasonable. A
cool June morning is not a contradiction, and is delightful; but sultry
January days are an utter abomination. Midwinter kicks over the traces
when daffodils sport in January sunshine, as they are doing this morning
about the crooked maple wherein I sit and write. The truth is, the
present conditions offer no pronounced feature of the open country;
nothing hot or cold, but all in that lukewarm condition tending to
nausea. Nor is this feeling of dissatisfaction that takes so strong a
hold upon mankind confined thereto. It is seen in half the creatures
that one meets. A meadow-mouse is no sluggard at other times, and a lazy
deer-mouse is a contradiction; but with what measured steps and slow a
mouse comes hobbling over the dead leaves about the maple I am perched
in! The creature looks at the sky, then at the ground, and finally at a
sorry shrub with seedless pods. Not a bit of animation in its motions,
but the same dejected feelings I recognize in myself evidently held the
mouse in bondage. Then I moved suddenly, but the creature merely looked
up, as if surprised at so much energy on my part. This was irritating,
so I sprang cat-like to the ground, but only to find the mouse just out
of reach and evidently not alarmed. Climbing again into the maple, I
awaited further developments, and saw at last a white-footed or
deer-mouse that seemed to me to drop from branch to branch, as it
descended from its bush nest, a dozen feet from the ground. This was
indeed discouraging. Usually there is no more graceful sight in the
woods, during autumn or winter, than that of this dainty mammal, picking
its way a-down a crooked highway of a tangled brier-patch. It is a sight
sure to be recorded in full in my note-books, as every time I witness it
some new grace marks the event, so I anticipated the old delight when I
caught my first glimpse of the mouse, and such a result!

It is true that if one’s feelings are out of tune, there may be a
distorted vision, but not so to-day. The world was askew, and has been
since the first frost, for whoever knew the crows to be
silent—positively silent, as compared with crows—on a crisp, frosty
morning? There were forty, by count, that flew over the maple, and only
one gave tongue. Here I may be charged with fancy, but that one crow
gave out no ringing _caw_, that is music to him who loves the country.
It was rather a fretful, long-drawn _pshaw!_ and fittingly voiced the
surroundings.

A winter in the tropics may be very delightful, but an “open” winter in
New Jersey is an utter abomination.




                            A Foggy Morning.


We know too little of the world except when bathed in sunshine. Not that
I recognize any advantage in groping in darkness—this is too like
dogmatizing on a theory; but between the obscurity of night and
brilliancy of the day there are happy mediums, too commonly neglected. I
have lately been wandering through a thick fog. Not a metaphysical, but
a material one; nor was it gloomy. The fog was thick, yet through it
streamed the level rays of the rising sun, gilding the topmost twigs of
the forest trees, roofing with gold a trackless wild beneath. So changed
for an hour or more was every long-familiar scene that, as I wandered, I
was a stranger in a strange land.

The late John Cassin, the ornithologist, has left on record how a vast
multitude of crows tarried for some time in Independence Square,
Philadelphia, having, after leaving their roosting grounds, lost their
reckoning in a dense fog. He tells us how the masses obeyed a few
leaders, and how methodically they all departed, led by their appointed
scouts. It was an incident that thrilled him more than all else that he
had witnessed; and none knew our birds in their homes better than he.

The bewildered crows this morning recalled this story, for the poor
birds were in a hopeless plight. Perhaps their leaders were at
loggerheads, or, being none, it was a case of each for himself and
ill-luck catch the hindmost. Be this as it may, their party-cries filled
the misty air and relieved me of all feeling of loneliness. From the
open meadows I ventured into a gloomy wood, leaving the crows to solve
their own problems. Here the fog proved an enormous lens, and, at the
same time obscuring the tops of even dwarfed undergrowth, made them
appear as trees, and the taller grasses that had withstood the winter
were as shrubbery. It was this most strange effect that made my old
playground as a land unknown. But as the wild cries of the troubled
crows grew faint, the sense of loneliness, against which one naturally
rebels, assumed mastery, and I longed for at least sunlight, that the
familiar trees might be stripped of their masks. One’s own thoughts
should be acceptable company at all times, but mine are not in the gray
of a winter morning, and fog-wrapped at that. Nevertheless, longing as I
did for others’ voices, I protested then and there against my dependence
upon bird-life. “Are there no other creatures astir?” I asked, and
pushed on yet deeper, where the old oaks were clustered. Into whatever
seemed a shelter I peered, and often thrust my arm, in hopes of feeling
some furry yet not too responsive mass. Nothing resented my unmannered
intrusion. Then into sundry hollow trees I thrust my cane, thinking at
least an owl might be roused from his slumbers; but ill-luck attended
me.

A little later, as the sun rose fairly high, the upper fog descended,
and so far increased the gloom in the forest; but beyond it, as I looked
down a long wood-path, I saw the cold gray light that brightened the
outer world. Among the trees there was no dispelling force, and the fog
became denser, until, overcome by its own weight, it turned to rain, and
such a shower! The mists of the open air had fled, while through the
woods the rain-drops, touched with a mellow light, shone as molten
metal. Rebounding from the interlacing twigs above and the carpet of
matted leaves below, these golden drops rang up, as might a myriad of
bells, the laggard life about me. Rang up the timid shrews, and one
darted among the dead leaves and moss, as though hotly pursued; aroused
the squirrels, and creeping stealthily down an oak’s extended arms, a
pair passed by, thinking by their cunning to escape my notice; called
forth a white-footed mouse, daintiest of all our mammals, that picked
its tortuous way to the meadow from its bush-nest in the briers. What
folly to suppose there is no life about you because it eludes your
search! The quickening rays of the sun have keener vision than any man,
however gifted in woodcraft, and these to-day peered directly into every
creature’s lair.

I might have searched in vain for half a day, yet found nothing among
the trees. Even the nest of the mouse in the bushes I had mistaken for a
cluster of thorn-pierced autumn leaves. It would seem as if every
creature anticipated the possible visit of a Paul Pry, and was cunning
enough to outwit him. The greater the effort made by the intruder, the
less are his chances of seeing much. Let him be patient. Often a moment
or two spent leaning against a tree effects more than a mile of noisy
plowing through the brittle, crackling leaves. The careless snapping of
a twig may not startle you, but it telegraphs your whereabouts to
creatures many a rod away. How do I know this? In this way: Not long
since I was watching a weasel as it tipped along the rough rails of an
old worm fence. It was intently engaged, following the trail of a ground
squirrel perhaps. Suddenly, as if shot, it stood in a half-erect
posture; turned its head quickly from one side to the other; then rested
one ear on or very near the rail, as I thought; then reassumed a
semi-erect position, gave a quick, bark-like cry, and disappeared. There
was no mistaking the meaning of every movement. The animal had heard a
suspicious sound, and recognizing it as fraught with danger, promptly
sought safety.

Extremely curious myself to learn what the weasel had heard, for I was
sure it was the sound of an approaching object, I sat perfectly still,
awaiting coming events. The mystery was quickly solved; a man drew near.
In about two minutes I heard footsteps, and in two more saw the man
approaching. Calculating the element of time in the succession of
events, it appeared that the weasel heard the approaching footsteps
first, fully one minute before I did, and about six elapsed before the
man reached me from the time of the weasel’s disappearance; in all, some
seven minutes. Now, allowing twenty paces to the minute and two and one
half feet to the pace, this man was considerably more than one hundred
yards distant. Indeed, I think he was walking faster and took longer
steps than I have allowed in my calculation, and was really still
farther away than 116 yards when the weasel caught the sound of his
approach. Is it any wonder, then, that the woods seem silent as we
saunter carelessly along?

The question now arises, Can any animal distinguish between the sounds
of the footsteps of our many wild and domestic animals? Can any one of
them recognize the difference between the steps of a man, fox, cow, or
rat? Now, a weasel, for instance, would not fear a cow or a sheep, but
would flee ordinarily from a man or a dog, and so such power of
discrimination would be very useful to it. I am positive that they can
distinguish, in the manner pointed out, between friend and foe, and so
are not required to seek safety at every unusual sound. I know that the
most dolorous screeching made by branches rubbing together whenever the
wind blew had no terror for squirrels or rabbits, yet they must have
trembled when they first heard it; I remember very well that I did. That
fish can recognize the approach of a man and will hide, and yet pay not
the slightest attention to galloping horses or tramping cattle that come
near, is well known; and I can see no reason to deny a like
discriminating ability to those animals whose very existence depends
upon it. The fact that such a power is the mainspring of their safety is
of itself a warrant for our belief that they possess it. And from what I
have observed of animal life, I am further convinced that the power
grows with the animal’s growth; hence the necessity of the young
remaining, as they do, with their parents until well matured. The sense
of hearing in a weasel, raccoon, or other creature is one that develops,
and doubtless varies, in efficiency among individuals. There is no
cut-and-dried instinct about it. I have often thought how much there is
in the saying common among trappers concerning very cunning animals of
any kind, “He is too old to be caught.” As chance has offered, I have
experimented upon our wild animals as to this very point, and though the
results were largely negative, there was nothing in them that showed my
inference, or conviction rather, to be untrue; and, on the other hand,
much that pointed unmistakably the other way.

But what of the clearing fog? True enough, I have drifted from it, and
it has passed earthward and away. So may it ever be! Let but a bird pass
by, singing or silent, it matters not; let but the shadow of a fleeing
creature cross my path, and clouds, sunshine, storm, or fairest weather
are alike one.




                       The Old Farm’s Wood-Pile.


           “In winter’s tedious nights sit by the fire
            With good old folks, and let them tell thee tales
            Of woful ages long ago.”

This was my wont just forty years ago; but such nights were never
tedious; nor were the ages woful of which the old folks chatted. Sitting
by the fire to-night, I am led to contemplate, not so much the heaped-up
logs and cheerful blaze before me as that other feature of days gone by,
the old farm’s wood-pile.

Recalling both what I saw and heard when a lad of a few summers, I am
startled to find that, one after the other, the prominent features of my
childhood’s days have largely disappeared. Improved farm machinery may
delight the economist, but its introduction has added no new charm to
country life, and robbed it of more than one. Was there not a subtle
something in the swish of the scythe to be preferred to the click of the
modern mower? Harvest comes and goes now without a ripple of excitement
upon the farm. A hum of the reaper for a few hours, and the work is
done. A portable steam-engine puffs in the field for a day, and the
threshing is over. But what a long series of delights, at least to the
onlooker, when grain was cradled, shocked, and then carted to the barn!
And, later, far in the winter, what music was the measured thumping of
the flails!

In due course came the present order, the natural outcome of relentless
evolution, and it is affectation to decry it. Mankind in the long run
has been benefited, and all should be thankful. But with these major
changes have come minor ones that I trust can be mourned without risking
a charge of silliness. I need not name them. Mention of any one calls up
the rest, so closely related were they all. Who can think of the old
wood-pile, a maze of gnarly sticks, huge chopping-log, and the rudely
hafted axe, without a vision also of the old kitchen with its cavernous
fireplace, and, just outside the door, the mossy well with its ungainly
sweep! All these were practically out of date in my time, but here and
there were retained on more than one old farm I knew, and are still in
use within walking distance of my home.

To many, perhaps, a wood-pile is but a pile of wood; but it is something
more. Can you not see that the ground is depressed, as though the earth
had been beaten down by the continued blows of axe and beetle? Do you
not notice that the outlying weeds are different from those that are
scattered elsewhere about the dooryard? Here, there is not only a
wood-pile now, but there has been one for many a long year, perhaps for
more than a century. Turn up the soil and you will find it black;
examine it with a lens, and you will find it filled with wood fiber in
every stage of decomposition. Dig deeper and you will find many a relic
of a by-gone generation. Pewter buttons that once shone like silver, the
pride of beaux who, though Quakers, loved a smart-looking coat; buckles
worn at the knee and upon the shoes; bits of spectacle rims that once
held circular glasses of enormous diameter; a thousand odds and ends,
indeed, of metal, glass, and china, discarded, one by one, as they were
broken; for the wood-pile was a dust-heap as well, and the last
resting-place of every small object that could not be burned.

My own earliest recollection of outdoor sport is of “playing house”
about the generous heap of gnarly logs and crooked branches that had
been brought from the woods during the winter. At some convenient corner
the loose earth would be scooped away, water brought until the hollow
was filled, and a long row of mud pies molded in clamshells, the product
of a happy morning’s work. It was usually when thus engaged that some
curious object would be brought to light and referred for explanation to
the wood-chopper, if he were present. I can see two old men now, whose
sole occupation in their later years, so far as I can recall, was to
split wood. These two men, Uz Gaunt and Miles Overfield, were “master
hands with an axe,” as they promptly said of themselves. With one foot
resting upon the chopping-block, and leaning upon his axe, Uz or Miles
would critically examine whatever I had found; and then, after silently
gazing into the distance to recall the past, with what an air of wisdom
would the information be forthcoming! Nor would either of these old men
ever promptly resume his labor. Such an interruption was sure to call up
a flood of memories, and delightful stories of long ago made me quite
forget my play. Nothing that my own or another’s brain could suggest
ever equaled in interest these old men’s stories. I can not clearly
recall a single one of them now, but simply the effect they produced and
the sad fact that, in their estimation, the present never favorably
compared with the days when they were young. And is it not ever so? If I
have learned nothing else since then I have learned this—that the
glorious future to which as a child I looked forward has proved
everything but what my fancy painted.

There was a comic side to my interviews with the wood-choppers which I
recall even now with grim satisfaction, for I think it was right that I
outwitted an unreasonably cross-grained aunt. Often my heart was sorely
troubled because, in the midst of a most exciting story, Aunt would call
out, “Thee is hindering Miles at his work; he doesn’t like to be
bothered;” all of which was in the interest of the work being done, and
not Miles’s comfort. Not like to be bothered, indeed! Neither he nor Uz
disapproved of loitering, for both were old, and Aunt knew this as well
as they. Before summer was over, a stratagem was devised that succeeded
admirably. I had merely to take my place on the off side of the
wood-pile, where I was quite out of sight, and Miles or Uz would work,
oh, so diligently! at the light wood for half a day, which needed next
to no exertion, and all the while could talk as freely as when taking
his nooning. Perhaps it was not well, but, young as I then was, I
learned that in human nature the real and the apparent are too often as
widely apart as the poles.

The wild life that forty years ago lurked in the woods and swamps of the
old farm was not different from what is still to be found there, but
there has been a great decrease in the numbers of many forms. The wild
cat and fox, perhaps, may be considered as really extinct, although both
are reported at long intervals in the immediate neighborhood. These, it
is certain, are stragglers—the former from the mountains to north, the
latter from the pine regions toward the sea-coast. But it has not been
long since the raccoon was regularly hunted during the moonlit winter
nights and the opposum found security in half the hollow trees along the
hillside. The dreaded skunk was then abundant. None of these, however,
can be said to be of common occurrence now, and their discovery produces
a ripple of excitement at present, while in my early days their capture
excited scarcely a word of comment. Then the old wood-pile was not
infrequently the hiding-place of one or more of these “varmints,” which
raided the hen-roost, kept the old dog in a fever of excitement, and
baffled the trapping skill of the oldest “hands” upon the farm. Now, at
best, when the last sticks are cut and stored in the woodshed, the
burrow of a rat is all we find.

With what glee do I still recall an autumn evening, years ago, when the
unusually furious barking of the old mastiff brought the whole family to
the door! In the dim twilight the dog could be seen dashing at and
retreating from the wood-pile, and at once the meaning of the hubbub was
apparent. Some creature had taken refuge there. A lantern was brought,
and as every man wished to be the hero of the hour, my aunt held the
light. The wood-pile was surrounded; every stick was quickly overturned,
and finally a skunk was dislodged. Confused or attracted by the light, I
do not know which, the “varmint” made straightway for the ample skirts
of the old lady, followed by the dog, and, in a second, skunk, dog,
lady, and lantern were one indistinguishable mass. My aunt proved the
heroine of the evening, nor did the men object. I often pause at the
very spot, and fancy that “the scent of the roses” doth “hang round it
still.”

A wood-pile, if it be not too near the house, has many attractions for
birds of various kinds, and I am at a loss to know why the
whip-poor-will should, of recent years, have forsaken it. Formerly, the
first of these birds heard in early spring was that which perched upon
the topmost stick and whistled his trisyllabic monologue from dark to
dawn. Now they frequent only the retired woodland tracts. Various
insect-eating birds continually come and go, attracted by the food they
find in the decayed wood, but the house-wren remains throughout its
summer sojourn here—that is, from April to October; while during the
colder months the winter wren takes the other’s place. These little
brown birds are exceedingly alike in appearance, in habits, and in size,
and I shall never forget my communicating the fact that they were not
the same to Miles Overfield. It was almost my last conversation with
him.

“Not the same?” he exclaimed. “You might as well tell me that a
snow-bird isn’t a chippy in its winter dress!”

“They are not, indeed!” I replied, astonished to hear so remarkable a
statement.

“So you set up book-learnin’ against me about such things as that, eh?”
Miles remarked, with unlimited scorn in both his voice and manner; and
from that time I lost favor in his eyes. Such crude ideas concerning our
common birds are still very common, nor is it to be wondered at.
Knowledge of local natural history is still at a discount. Is there a
country school where even its barest rudiments are taught?

The heaped-up logs that, burning brightly, made cheery my room when I
sat down for a quiet evening’s meditation, are now a bed of ashes and
lurid coals. They typify the modern wood-piles about our farms—mere
heaps of refuse sticks and windfall branches of our dooryard trees. Fit
for kindling, perhaps, but never for a generous fire upon an open
hearth. As I linger over them, the irrecoverable past, with all its
pleasures to the fore, comes back with painful vividness. The fantastic
shapes of the ruddy coals, the caverns in the loose ashes, the shadows
of the andirons, the filmy thread of smoke, are a landscape to my fancy,
upon which my eyes can never dwell again. In the faint moaning of the
wind that fills the chimney corner I hear a voice, long stilled, whose
music led me dancing through the world. Place and people are alike
changed. “All, all are gone, the old familiar faces.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                PART II.

                               IN SPRING.

                                -------




                            The April Moon.


Of the thirteen moons of the year, not one is of such significance to
the outdoor naturalist as that of April. I think that there can be no
doubt but that a clear sky, rather than temperature, is the important
factor in the migratory movement of our birds that come from the South
in spring. Certainly the morning of April 14th, of this year, was cool
enough to have retarded birds sensitive to cold. Ice formed on shallow
ponds and a heavy frost rested upon all the upland fields; yet at
sunrise the old beeches were alive with those beautiful birds, the
yellow red-polled warblers. Nor were they numb or dumb. There was not an
instant that they rested, nor a moment that they did not sing. The April
moon, too, has the merit of brightening the marshes, when in fullest
force the frog-world comes to the fore, and perhaps never are these
slimy batrachians so noisy as when the night is warm, the sky clear, and
the moon full in April. Take a midnight ramble then, and see if I am not
right. Of course, no one wishes to be confined to the company of
croaking frogs, but other creatures will doubtless cross your path, and
I assume the reader does not live in an utterly desolate region. My
reference to frogs may seem to imply contempt, but it is not deserved.
If they are not overwise, neither are they wholly stupid, and it is well
for all men to be chary of their judgments. There are times and
occasions when a frog may outwit a philosopher. Try to catch one on
slippery mud, and see which sprawls the more gracefully.

I recently rambled for half a night over acres of wild marsh, and, while
I often wished myself at home or that I could grasp the arm of a friend,
yet am heartily glad, now that it is over, that I undertook to trespass
upon the haunts of owls, frogs, bitterns, and a host of minor creatures.
But let me be more explicit, and a word further concerning frogs. In the
tide marshes, where the shallow water has been warmed by the noonday
sun, the pretty little _hylodes_ were holding high carnival. I strolled
leisurely, at this stage of my ramble, to the water’s edge, but only to
find that the creatures could only be heard, not seen; unless, indeed,
the trembling specks upon the glimmering pools, which faded out at my
approach, were they. The piercing shrillness of their united songs was
something wonderful. It was not so much a chorus as the wildest orgies
of Lilliputian fifers. At times the song of this same frog is the sharp
clicking of a castanet, hence their name in zoölogy, _Acris crepitans_,
but none were crepitating that night. Yesterday I waded into a wet
meadow and crouched upon a projecting hassock. Thousands of the fifing
frogs were about me, but I could see none. I long sat there, hoping that
my patience would be rewarded in time, and so it was. At last one came
cautiously from its hiding-place in the submerged grass, thrusting but
its head above the water’s surface, and scanned closely its
surroundings. It eyed me most suspiciously, and then slowly crawled out
upon outreaching grass until quite above the water. It seemed very long
before it was suited to its perch but when comfortably fixed, appeared
to gulp in a great mouthful of air; in fact, must have done so, for
immediately an enormous globular sac formed beneath its lower jaw. The
sunlight being favorable, I could see that the sac contained about two
drops of water. Then the fifing commenced. The motion of the mouth was
too slight to be detected, but the membranous globe decreased or
increased with each utterance. At no time did it wholly disappear.
Noting so much, I then moved slightly to attract the creature’s
attention. Immediately it ceased fifing, but the sac remained slightly
diminished in size. As I was again perfectly quiet, its confidence
returned, and the shrill monotonous “peep!” was resumed, but pitched in
even a higher key, as though to make good the loss of time my slight
interference had caused.

When Peter Kalm, the Swedish naturalist, was studying the natural
history of New Jersey, he was much struck with the noises made by
certain small frogs which he heard, and supposed that he saw; but it
would appear, from a recent study of the subject by Prof. Garman, of
Cambridge, Mass. that Kalm attributed the voices of one species to a
very different and much larger frog. The reasons given for this opinion
by Prof. Garman are conclusive; that author remarks; “Apparently the
frog Kalm heard was not the one he caught. The cry is that of _Hyla
Pickeringii_; the frog taken was probably ... the leopard, frog.” So
far, Garman; but I am convinced my friend is mistaken, and that Kalm
heard the shrill peeping of the little _Acris crepitans_, which is
extraordinarily abundant, while, in the locality where Kalm was,
Pickering’s _hyla_ is comparatively rare.

I lingered long by the resounding marsh—so long that the chilly damp
provoked an aguish pain, and admonished by it I turned toward the
leafless trees upon the bluff, where I hoped to find a drier atmosphere.
The moon was well upon her westward course when I reached higher ground,
and what a change from the open meadows to gloomy woodland! The dark
shadows of noonday are not repeated during a moonlit night. They are not
only less distinct, but quivering, as though they, too, shivered as the
air grew cold. It is not strange that one peoples the distance then with
uncouth shapes, and sees a monster wherever moves a mite. However one
may argue to himself that this is the same wood-path down which he daily
passes without a thought, and that since sunset no strange creatures can
have come upon the scene, he sees a dozen such, it may be, in spite of
every effort to laugh them out of existence. Let a spider crawl over
your face at noon, and you brush the creature from you almost
unconsciously. Let a filmy cobweb rest upon your damp forehead at
midnight, and you struggle to be rid of it, as though bound with a rope.
The mingled sounds of myriad frogs, the hooting of owls, the rustling
leaves beneath the shrew’s light tread, even the chirping of a dreaming
bird, can not assure you. Every tree is the ambush of a lurking elf;
ghosts and hobgoblins follow in your steps. I have abundant sympathy for
those who, walking through moonlit woods, whistle to keep their courage
up.

Such, in a measure, were my own feelings until I reached a glade where
the light fell softly upon the wind-swept sod. There the immaterial
world vanished, and I was no longer the companion of uncanny sprites.
Resting from a long journey, yet not disposed to sleep, a pair of
woodcocks stalked leisurely across my path without deigning to notice my
approach. I drew back a pace or two, and watched them pass by. They did
not leave the glade, but seemed to be scanning every foot of it, perhaps
discussing its merits as a summer resort. Then first one and then the
other took a short upward and circuitous flight, and in a few seconds
returned. This was frequently done. Was it to hail passing migrants? I
ask this seriously, for I have known several pairs to frequent a cluster
of rhododendrons all through the month of March, and yet none nested
until late in April: _per contra_, I have found their eggs in February.
The movements of this pair, as I saw them, were mysterious, but I could
do nothing in so uncertain a light toward unraveling the mystery, and
contented myself with attracting their attention. I whistled shrilly but
a single note, and as if shot the birds came to a halt. I whistled
again, and they drew nearer to me, as I thought; but if so, I became no
mystery to them, and upward and outward over the meadows, with a great
whirring of their wings, they vanished.

This was so trivial an incident that, had it no sequel, would not be
worthy of record. I have said I whistled shrilly a single note. It
roused a sleeping cardinal near by, which straightened its crest, shook
out its rumpled down, stared into vacant space, and whistled in return.
I quickly replied, and so we had the woods to echo with our calls. “What
can the matter be?” asked another and another of these birds, until the
whole hillside sounded with their cries. I was lonely no longer. The
moon shone with added luster, the grewsome shadows of the dwarfed cedars
fled, and, but for the twinkling of a million stars, I might have
thought it day. But the pleasing fancy was of short duration. Bird after
bird resumed its slumbers. Silence and a deeper gloom reigned in the
forest, nor did my heart cease to beat nervously until I reached my
home.




                         Concerning Small Owls.


It may be April according to the almanac, and yet midwinter, judging by
the thermometer; and perhaps, as a rule, March winds continue their
chilly gustiness until the fourth month is well advanced. I have scoured
a weather-wise neighborhood for some “saying” about this feature of our
climate, but gathered nothing not absolutely childish; but, if so run
the days, the nights of April have a merit peculiarly their own; by the
light of the waxing moon, let the temperature be high or low, the
north-bound migratory birds begin to come. I saw a few of them during
the last week in March; but it was when the April moon was eight days
old that field sparrows trooped hitherward by thousands, and how the
bare upland fields rang with their glee!

There is another happy feature of spring’s initial days. The winds, be
they never so boisterous from dawn to sunset, rest during the night, and
nocturnal life rejoices. What a mighty volume of sound arises from the
marshes when the wind-tossed waters are at rest! The tiny hylodes, the
smallest of our frogs, is fairly ecstatic now, and, were there no other
voices to be heard, this creature alone would dispel all feeling of
loneliness.

But what of a ramble during an April night? After an almost tempestuous
day, there was little promise of anything akin to adventure, judging the
landscape from my open door. However confirmed in the strolling habit
might be the saunterer, rambling at night, with but frogs for company,
is scarcely tempting, even though the moon shines brilliantly. Then, it
occurred to me, is it not enough that the wind had ceased, and that
out-of-doors it is something more than merely April in name? Therefore,
expecting little and hoping less, I ventured abroad, directing my steps,
as usual, meadow-ward. And it was not with, as might seem at first, an
altogether undesirable and non-receptive frame of mind. One is far more
likely to be content with little, and not wholly disappointed if his
walk proves without adventure. But the latter is seldom or never the
result. It is a strange night that finds the whole world asleep.
Certainly I never found it so before, and did not to-night. By the pale
light of the cloud-wrapped moon, stately herons wended their way from
the river to the meadows, and twice a little owl hooted at me as I
passed by the hollow hickory that stands as a lonely sentinel in the
midst of a wide reach of pasture. Here was an instance when to be hooted
at was a positive pleasure. The little owlet questioned the propriety of
my being abroad at night, nor was he at all mealy-mouthed. He did not
complain merely, but scolded unmistakably; and hovering above me as well
as when flitting from branch to branch, he snapped his little beak most
viciously. It was evident that fear of myself did not influence the owl
at all, but he was provoked because my presence interfered with his
plans. The bird knew well enough that I would keep the mice away by
standing in full sight out in the open meadow. I have been puzzled, at
times, to interpret the chirps and twitters of excited birds, and this
irate little owl cried “Get out!” as plainly as man could speak it, and
I got out.

In all works treating of the intelligence of animals there is much said
of the mental status of parrots, and little or nothing of the mother-wit
of owls. Why this oversight is a mystery, unless it arises from the fact
that “from the nocturnal preferences of most owls their habits are very
slightly known, and many interesting facts are doubtless to be
discovered in this direction. More often heard than seen, even their
notes are only imperfectly known as yet.” Notwithstanding this, owls are
well known in a general way—better known, indeed, than any other family
of birds. Their appearance is striking, their expression intelligent,
and that they were selected, in ancient and more poetical times, as the
emblem of wisdom, is not to be wondered at. The bird of Minerva does not
belie its looks. To speak of an owl’s wisdom in a Pickwickian sense, is
to publish one’s own ignorance. I would that I might venture to give in
merited detail an account of the wise doings, if not sayings, of little
red owls that I have held captives for months. And, better yet, narrate
the summer histories of owls at freedom that nested in the old orchard.
Or write of the cunning ways of the handsome barn-owls, those beautiful
cosmopolite birds, that made their home in a hollow oak upon an upland
field.

To do this would be to place our common owls where, in the scale of
intelligence, they rightfully belong. Of all our birds, they are the
least governed by mere impulse, and pass their days, as it has appeared
to me, in a most methodical and reasonable manner. It has been admitted
by many a traveler that to shoot a monkey was too like murder; they
could not do it. Would that every farmer in the land had the same
feeling with reference to the owls; for the same reason holds good, only
to a less extent.

It is true that we know very little about the various cries of owls, but
every country lad, at least, knows that the bird’s utterances are not
merely slight variations of a typical hoot, or the _to-whit to-whoo_ of
the poets. Well I remember how, evening after evening, when in camp in
southern Ohio, the great horned owls made night melancholy rather than
hideous, by their sonorous _hoo-hoo-hoo!_ At first afar off, and then
nearer and clearer, sounded their incessant call, as, flitting from one
tall sycamore to another, they slowly approached the red glare of the
camp-fire. Their hooting varied not a whit, but merely grew more
distinct, and for long I thought them capable of no other utterance, but
how great an error this was evident, when at last one of these huge
birds perched in the oak that sheltered my tent. The melancholy
_hoo-hoo-hoo!_ was the same, but with this were a host of minor notes,
and these were once followed by a series of explosive, ill-tempered
ejaculations when the little red owls that had their home in this same
oak scolded without ceasing at the intrusion. I can liken the hubbub to
nothing but the subdued clamor of excited geese. In like manner I was
scolded by the little owl on the meadow hickory. The moonlit September
night on the bluff of Brush Creek was vividly recalled.

Owls need but to be more closely studied, and, if in confinement, to be
treated with kindness and attended by one person, to demonstrate that
all the wisdom seeming to lurk behind their expressive faces is really
there. In matters of animal intelligence I know that I am heterodox, for
I give the crow prominence equal to the parrot, and strongly doubt if
owls should stand much behind them.




                           A Hidden Highway.


A wide tract of meadows that skirt the river near my home, and upon
which much wealth and labor have been expended in years past, was the
abode of desolation in the eyes of the sturdy settlers two hundred years
ago, and so treacherous the footing in every direction—so the record
runs—that the hunted bears and deer would come to a stand rather than
plunge headlong into the trackless waste. With proper caution the tract
was finally explored, mapped, and ditched, and now there is small chance
of disaster unless the rambler is culpably negligent.

I hold that one should think kindly of a ditch. The commonly imputed
repulsiveness of such a waterway is more often wanting than present, and
nearly all that I have seen have teemed with interesting life. What are
the brooks, indeed, that turn a poet’s head, but Nature’s own ditches?
As to those of man’s creation, they need but a little time, and they
will assume every function of a natural watercourse.

As I stood recently upon rising ground overlooking a pasture meadow that
was brown as a nut with its carpet of dead grass, I noticed a long,
straight line of weed-like growths still showing a tinge of green, as if
the frost had spared a narrow strip of the exposed tract. Viewing it
from other points, it was evident that a ditch had once been dug where
these ranker grasses grew, and through long neglect it had finally been
choked with weeds and almost obliterated. It was a delightful discovery.
Armed with a spade, a hoe, and sundry tools of greater or less
efficiency, I set out to explore this one-time watercourse, thinking it
child’s play to move tons of matted weeds and mud. How much or how
little I accomplished it matters not, but the fierce onslaught of
unreasoning enthusiasm broke in the door of a zoölogical El Dorado.

Jetsam and flotsam from the yearly freshets, showers of wind-tossed
autumn leaves, a forest of rank growths that revel in the mud, all had
added their quota, unchecked, to the baneful work of damming the little
stream, which finally had been shut from view, but, as it proved, not
wholly overcome. A narrow, tube-like channel still remained, with the
mud below and upon each side almost as yielding as the water itself.
Here fish, turtles, and creeping things innumerable not only lived, but
wended their darksome way from the open ditch not far off to the basins
of the sparkling springs at the hill-foot. I had discovered a hidden
highway, a busy thoroughfare that teemed with active life.

Except with those forms of life that by their construction are solely
adapted to a subterranean existence, as the earth-worm, or to a fixed
one, as the oyster, we commonly associate our familiar forms of wild
animals with unlimited freedom of movement, and suppose that they have
the wide world before them to wander where they list; and, again, that
of creatures as high in the scale as fishes and upward the supposition
is that in proportion to their freedom of movement are their chances of
escape when pursued. Now these, like many another common impression, are
true in a general way, but fairly bristle with exceptions. For instance,
there are many extremely sluggish fishes, yet what creatures are more
agile and swift than the minnows in our brooks? And there are fishes
that can walk on the mud with their bodies entirely out of the water.
Dr. Gunther tells us that “the Barramunda is said to be in the habit of
going on land, or at least on mud-flats; and this assertion appears to
be borne out by the fact that it is provided with a lung.... It is also
said to make a grunting noise, which may be heard at night for some
distance.”

So far Australia; and now what of New Jersey mud-flats and the fishes
that frequent them? As I continued to explore the hidden highway of
snakes, turtles, and fishes, I found in almost every spadeful of mud and
matted weeds one or more brown-black fishes that were as much at home as
ever an earth-worm in the firmer soil. Blunt-headed, cylindrical,
thick-set, and strongly finned, these fishes were built to overcome many
an obstacle that would prove insuperable to almost any other. How,
indeed, they burrowed even in soft mud is not readily explained; that
they do advance head-foremost into such a trackless mass is
unquestionable.

How long these mud-fish tarry in such spots I can not say, but during
the long-dry summer this one-time ditch must be almost as dry as dust,
and then probably it is quite forsaken; but their powers of endurance
may be underestimated. Of the African “Lepidosiren” Dr. Gunther remarks:
“During the dry season specimens living in shallow waters which
periodically dry up form a cavity in the mud, the inside of which they
line with a protecting capsule of mucus, and from which they emerge
again when the rains refill the pools inhabited by them. While they
remain in this torpid state of existence the clay balls containing them
are frequently dug out, and if the capsules are not broken the fishes
imbedded in them can be transported to Europe, and released by being
immersed in slightly tepid water.”

The many mud-fishes that I tossed upon the dead grass had clearly no
liking for an atmospheric bath, and floundered about in a typical
fish-like fashion; but not for long. Finding no open water near, they
became quiet at once when by chance they fell into some little cavity of
the mud masses from which the water had not drained. All such fortunate
fishes seemed quite at ease, and remained motionless where their good
luck had brought them; but the moment I attempted to pick them up they
twisted like eels upon their muddy beds, and buried themselves
head-foremost with a rapidity that was simply marvelous. This perhaps is
what the reader would expect, but it struck me as a little strange,
because, when I startled others of these fishes as they rested among the
weeds or on the sand of the open ditches, they usually gave a twist of
the tail that dug a pit in a twinkling, and in this the fishes sank,
tail-foremost.

When in the mud these curious minnows can only feel their way, and if
they procure any food at all at such a time it can only be such objects
as come directly in contact with their mouths. But how different is it
when these same fishes are in open water! They are expert fly-catchers
then, and capture many an insect that would be lost to a trout or chub.
They have not to wait for flies to fall upon the surface, but seize
those that happen to alight upon overhanging blades of grass or any
projecting twig. The distance that they will leap above the water is
remarkable, the spring being preceded by a withdrawal from the object
and a slight sigmoid curvature of the body, involving, I suppose, the
same principle as that of a short run before jumping. Mud minnows two
inches in length, which I kept in an aquarium, were proved capable of
leaping above the water a distance equal to twice their length; but
others, much larger, could not or would not leap so far. So far as my
own observations extend, exhibitions of this leaping from the water to
seize insects are not often witnessed, and it was my aquarium studies
that led me to watch these fishes closely when in the muddy ponds and
ditches. Once, when so engaged, I saw the following: One of these
minnows, little more than an inch in length, sighted an insect at the
same moment that it was seen by a huge female minnow more than thrice
the other’s length. The little fellow had all the advantage, however, as
it was much nearer the fly, and at the proper instant away it leaped,
caught the insect, and sank back—but not to the water. That hungry
ogress was willing to be fed by proxy, as it were, and, permitting the
little minnow to swallow the fly, she promptly swallowed both.

Tiring of the fish at last, and having long since wearied of reopening
the ditch, I turned my attention to the other creatures that I had
unearthed. Among them were four species of turtles, each represented by
several individuals. One of these was the Muhlenberg tortoise, the
rarest of American chelonians. Probably just here, over a few hundred
acres of the Delaware meadows, there are more of them than in the whole
world besides. The fact of their great rarity makes them the more
interesting to a naturalist; but to-day they proved exceedingly stupid,
far more so than the others, which in a mild way resented my
interference, and pranced over the dead grass quite energetically,
reaching the nearest open ditch in good time, and to my surprise they
all seemed governed by a sense of direction. They went but little if any
out of their way. Not so with the “Muhlenbergs”; they seemed dazed for a
long time, and finally, after much looking about, they started, the four
together, in the wrong direction, and would have had a weary journey to
reach open water. Again and again I faced them about, but they would not
go as I wished. Such obstinate turtles I had never seen before, and I
almost felt convinced that they were impelled by some common impression
very different from that which actuated the others. As is often the
case, I was all at sea in my efforts to interpret their purposes.
Letting them alone, they waddled through the grass for a few yards only,
when they reached little pools that met all their needs.

About what time the summer birds have arrived, and golden-club blooms in
the tide-water creeks, gilding the mud-flats that have so long been
bare, the turtles, or three at least of our eight aquatic species, begin
“sunning” themselves, as it is usually said, but they continue the
practice through rainy and cloudy days. Every projecting stump, stranded
fence-rail or bit of lumber capable of bearing any weight is sure to be
the resting-place of one, and if there is room, of a dozen turtles. I
once counted seventeen on a fence-rail, and thirty-nine on a raft-log
that the freshets had stranded on the meadows. Why, at such a time,
should these creatures be so timid? They certainly have no enemies about
here, and their horny shields would effectually protect them if fishing
mammals like the mink and otter should acquire aldermanic tastes; and
yet, so far as I can determine by experimentation, there is scarcely an
animal more timid than the painted or spotted water-turtle. Fear, with
nothing to be afraid of, is a contradiction, and I am led to suggest
that the timidity is hereditary. Something over two centuries ago the
Delaware Indians hunted and fished these meadows without ceasing; and
there can still be gathered the bones of such animals as they ate from
the ashes of their camp-fires. Turtle-bones almost equal in number those
of our larger fishes. Have we a clew here to the mystery? Do the turtles
of to-day inherit a fear of man? This may seem an absurdity, or verging
toward it, but it is not. A critic at my elbow—a plague upon their
race!—reminds me that I once commented upon the tameness of the turtles
at Lake Hopatcong, in northern New Jersey, and adds, aggravatingly, that
that region was a favorite resort of the Indians. If this stricture
holds, then I can suggest for the Delaware Valley turtles that it is a
fear, born with each generation, of the railway cars that hourly rumble
over an elastic road-bed, and cause the whole meadows to tremble. Terror
may seize the turtles when they feel their world shake beneath them, and
this disturbance they may attribute to man’s presence. This is not so
rational, and I do know that turtles distinguish between men and
domestic animals. They are not afraid of cows; of this I have abundant
proof, although I do not accept as true the remark of Miles Overfield:
“Afeard o’ cattle? Not much. Why, I’ve seen tortles line a cow’s back,
when she stood flank-deep in the water.”

I had noticed that the narrow, tube-like channel of the obliterated
ditch grew less defined as I dug in one direction, so I paced off a rod
in advance and made a cross-section. Here it could not be traced, but a
half-dozen very small openings, circular in outline, could be seen, and
through some of these the water slowly trickled. I found a single
mole-cricket, and attribute to it and others of its kind these little
tunnels. Certainly more persistent burrowers do not exist, and I have
known them to cause mischief to a mill-dam which was attributed to
musk-rats. “They are,” says Prof. Riley, “the true moles of the insect
world, and make tortuous galleries, destroying everything that comes in
their way, cutting through roots, and eating the fine underground twigs,
as well as the worms and grubs, which they meet with during their
burrowings.”

A volume would not suffice to enumerate the invertebrate or insect-like
life that lived in this dark passage-way beneath the sod; nor do we
wonder at finding such low forms groping in utter darkness; but why
higher animals that are found, and far more frequently, in the open air
and sunlit waters should delight to crowd these same gloomy quarters, is
a problem not so easily solved. We are left to conjecture, and
invariably do so, and are often overwhelmed when an army of objections
confront our theories. Notwithstanding this, there is a pleasure in
reopening an obliterated ditch, in letting in the light upon a hidden
highway, for by so doing we also let in light upon ourselves, seeing
with clearer vision the wonderful world about us.




                             Weathercocks.


During a six-mile drive, recently, I passed by eleven barns, upon nine
of which were weathercocks. No two, I am positive, pointed in the same
direction, and only one was very near to being right. Such, at least,
was the conclusion, testing them by the compass, the movement of the
clouds, and the wetted fingers which my companion and myself held up.
Alas! I and my friend were at odds so far as the last test was
concerned. It is little wonder that weather-prophets are so apt to be at
loggerheads, if the direction of the wind admits of discussion. Could
the various shapes of these weathercocks have had to do with the matter,
assuming that the nine we saw were in working order? If so, what is a
reliable pattern? I remember a remarkable wooden Indian with one foot
raised as if the fellow was hopping, and with an impossible bow so held
as to indicate that an arrow was about to be discharged. This wooden man
obediently twirled to and fro in every passing breeze; but you were left
in a quandary as to whether the wind’s direction was indicated by the
uplifted foot or by the bow and arrow; for they pointed in opposite
directions. “That is the merit of the vane,” once said the owner of the
barn over which this “shapeless sculpture” towered; “you can use your
own judgment.” Of the weathercocks seen on our ride there were one deer,
two fishes, three arrows, a wild goose, and two gilded horses at full
gallop. Only the wild goose told the truth, or almost told it. Now, as
each farmer judges the weather of the day by the direction of the wind,
think of bringing the owners of these nine differing weathercocks
together! Each puts implicit faith in his own vane, and we all know what
subject is first broached when two or twenty men are gathered together.
Something like this would be the classification of the unhappy nine: Two
positive clear-weather folk, two hopefully ditto, and five that
predicted rain before night. Put it in another way: Four men would
think, if they did not call, five men fools; and, all being equally
obstinate, there would be the same division whatever was discussed. So,
at least, the world wags in one section of our country.

There is much more stress laid upon the direction of the wind, in this
matter of the weather, than is warranted by the facts. Those deadly
statistics, that are gall and wormwood to the weather-wise, prove this.
Even a northeast wind may blow for three days without one drop of rain.
When this happens, we hear of a “dry storm”—curious name for bright,
clear days, perhaps with a cloudless sky, that, by virtue of the cool
breeze, from the east, are well-nigh perfect. Or we are told that the
moon held back the water and the next storm will be doubly wet. Ay! even
that Jupiter or Mars had a finger in the pie and disturbed the proper
order of wind and rain. It is painful to think that so many thousands
still believe that not only ourselves, but even the poor weather, is
under the domination of the moon and stars. How little the planets must
have to do, to trouble themselves about our little globe! “I don’t like
to see that star so shiny,” a wiseacre recently remarked, pointing to
Venus; “it’s a bad sign”; but of what, the simpleton could not or would
not tell. And as to comets, or even meteors, if they are more numerous
than usual, they make hundreds miserable. The truth is, that the
valuable treatises upon weather, the outcome of patient study and
scientific method, still go a-begging, while the crudities of
weather-cranks find ready credence. And the day is still distant, I
believe, when it will be otherwise.

What can not be said of weathercocks as symbols of disappointment? To
how many a country-bred boy has fallen the unhappy lot of being
storm-bound when a fishing frolic has been planned! My initial grief was
that an April day proved stormy that should have been clear as crystal.
The time, the tide, the moon, all the essential and unessential
requirements of shad-fishing in Crosswicks Creek, were favorable, and
to-morrow, Saturday, I was to be one of the party. A mere onlooker, to
be sure, but what mattered that? I had heard of shad-fishing all winter
long, and now, being seven years old, was allowed to be one of the
party. O tedious Friday! Would school never be dismissed? O endless
Friday night! Had the sun forgotten to rise? And all Saturday it rained!
That horrid wooden Indian, of which we have heard, fairly grinned with
fiendish delight as it faced the leaden east and received the driving
rain with open arms. It never moved an inch from dawn to sunset. Yes,
once it moved. During a lull I slipped out-of-doors, and bribed an older
lad to stone the obstinate vane. One sharp pebble mutilated the
head-dress and sent the Indian spinning about, regardless of wind or
weather; but when at rest again the face was looking eastward. O
pestiferous weathercocks that point to the east on Saturday!

Why vanes should have been so generally shaped like a crowing
chanticleer as to give rise to the more common name of “weathercocks” is
not easily determined. Of a few explanations seen or heard, none had a
modicum of common sense. When and where, too, the first vane was set up,
whether cock or arrow, is an unsolvable problem. Possibly it is
necessary to grope backward into prehistoric times; although Rütimeyer
does not give the common fowl as one of the birds found in the _débris_
beneath the ancient lake-dwellings of Switzerland. It may be added, too,
that chickens are not weather prophets, as are geese and peacocks;
notwithstanding they figure somewhat conspicuously in all animal
weather-lore, and have done so since 250 B. C., if not earlier. Aratus,
in his Diosemeia, or Prognostics, for instance, claims that a cock, when
unusually restless or noisy, foretells a coming storm, and this nonsense
is believed to-day by a fair proportion of our rural population. Of
course, modifications of this are well-nigh innumerable, and one of
them, when a small boy, I found useful. If a cock came to the open
kitchen door, company was coming—such was the firm conviction of a trio
of aunts who ruled the household. Now, company-coming meant pie or
pudding, and to a small boy this means a great deal. Acting upon it, the
crowing of a cock was faithfully practiced in the woods, and then, while
my brother singled out a rooster and drove it to the door, I crowed
lustily from behind the lilac-bushes; and the _ruse_ brought pie and
pudding more than once, but not too often to weaken these credulous
women’s faith.

I have mentioned a dry storm with the wind due east. There was one such
at the close of the first week in April, 1889. The air was
exasperatingly chilly. Even the frogs in the marshes were silent, and
humanity was ill-natured and despondent. While standing on the lee side
of an old oak I chanced upon a glorious weathercock—one that would shame
the despairing thoughts of any reasonable man. That prince of winter
birds, a crested tit, sat long upon a leafless twig facing the cruel
east wind, sat there and sang, clinging, as for dear life, to the
swaying branch, _T’sweet here! T’sweet here!_ the burden of its song;
the ever-hopeful story of this incomparable bird. What if the east wind
did blow? Was there not, here and there, a trembling violet in the
woods; a filmy veil of white where the whitlow grasses bloomed; a
flashing of the maple’s ruddy fire where the fitful sunshine fell? All
these gave promise to the brave-hearted bird, of spring as coming, if
not quite here. Let me take the hint. Give me just such a weathercock
for each day of the year.




                            Apple-Blossoms.


During the whole of April, the old apple-trees in the lane are closely
watched, and not without a deal of impatience, too. “Will they blossom
freely?” is asked almost daily, and what a world of anticipation hinges
upon this wondrous wealth of bloom!

To linger in the lane when the old trees are flower-laden; when the air
is heavy with a honeyed scent; when the bees’ low hum fills the long,
leafy arch, and every summer bird is happiest—this is an experience too
valued to be lost; one that sweetens life until spring shall come again.

The trees are old. They have more than rounded a full half-century, and
now bend with the weight of many winters. They are ragged rather than
rugged; yet, game to the last, are again sturdily upholding to the
bright sunshine of merry May mornings a marvelous wealth of bloom.

As seen from the crests of the rolling hills beyond, this double row of
trees recalls a huge snow-bank, such as has often filled the lane in
winter—recalls such as I have seen at sunrise, when they were tinged
with a rosy light. In winter, I have often thought of the blossoming
trees in May: now I recall the lifeless beauty of midwinter snows. In
winter the beauty of the marble statue held me: now, the joy of a living
form.

But apple-blossoms bear well a close inspection. Better than a
comprehensive view from the neighboring fields is to draw near, to walk
beneath and beside them, to linger in their scented shade. Time after
time, until now, a shadow of doubt has crossed our paths, when we
gathered early bloom. The wail of winter winds still sounded in every
passing breeze, although we plucked violets from the greensward beneath
budding trees. Too often, in April, we are over-confident; but there is
little danger of disaster now. Apple-blossoms are the first assuring
gift of fruitful summer. Grim winter is powerless now, to wound us.
Tricksy April can play no heartless pranks.

What summer sound is more suggestive than the hum of bees? Certainly not
even the song of the returning birds. As I look among the flower-laden
boughs above me, I can see not only the bees from the hive, the true
honey-gatherers, but burly humble-bees go whizzing through the rosy
labyrinths, or, dipping down to a level with my upturned face, threaten
fierce vengeance if I draw too near. Again and again they come, one
after another, and each time, I think, a little nearer, yet never,
despite their bluster, venturing to sting. To be sure, I make no threats
in return, nor run away, and so my bold front may deter them, for they
really seem to read our thoughts at times. Not so their cousins, the
autumn wasps. They brook nothing. I remember, one October morning,
throwing a stone at and bringing down an apple, upon which, as it
happened, a wasp was feeding at the time. The ruffled insect came the
first to the ground, and not only promptly stung me when I stooped to
pick up the apple, but followed me across the lawn, into the house, and
darted most viciously at my face, time after time.

When the old bee-bench, with its half-dozen rude boxes, stood by the
gooseberry hedge in my grandfather’s garden, the lane, when the trees
were in blossom, was, as I recall that time, even more thronged by bees
than now, and the mighty humming of their wings forcibly suggested the
rapid flow of water; as the roar of the mill-dam, after a heavy rain. So
great a volume of sound, indeed, was there all day, that the night was
silent in comparison. So ran my thoughts; so returned vague visions of
past years, as I lingered in the lane to-day. But after all, may it not
be that I, rather than the conditions, have changed? How often have I
longed to hear the songs, to see the bloom, to catch the fragrant breeze
that held me spellbound when a boy; and all these later, fleeting years,
I have hoped for them in vain!

With the apple-blossoms come the birds’ nests, and who that has lived in
the country knew not of a robin’s home in some old apple tree? And did
ever a bird sing merrier strains than this same robin at sunrise? Or,
even better, as the sun shone forth again, after a shower, the rapid
roll of his rejoicing, as he perched upon his home-tree’s loftiest
branch.

It is the rule, apparently, that very old apple-trees have great hollows
in them. If the entire trunk is not a shell, then here and there, where
branches have decayed and fallen, caves of considerable depth are found,
and how quickly wild life tenants such snug quarters! A few of our
mammals, many birds, several snakes, besides one species of salamander,
and the tree-toad, have been found at home in hollow apple-trees. If,
therefore, such a tree stands not too near a dwelling, its occupants may
epitomize the fauna of a farm. Although, after a rain, I have found
pools of water in old trees, there were no fish, and these need not be
looked for, unless some venturous mud-minnow, that now can work its way
over narrow mud-flats, shall, in time, take to climbing trees, as does a
perch that is well known to ichthyologists. “In 1794, Daldorf,” says Dr.
Gunther, “in a memoir ... mentions that in 1791 he had himself taken an
Anabas in the act of ascending a palm-tree which grew near a pond. The
fish had reached the height of five feet above the water, and was going
still higher.”

When I peer into the hollow trees in the lane, here, at home, I only
expect to find birds, and seldom have been disappointed, except so far
as the English sparrow has ousted the old-time bluebird. It is
exasperating to think that the latter have been crowded out and now
gather in the more retired woodland areas to breed. What song better
fitted with apple-blossoms of a bright May morning, than that of the
bluebird? And now, we have instead, the ill-tempered chirping of an
alien sparrow!

But apple-blossoms are none the less beautiful because of the
unfortunate changes meddlesome men have brought about. They hold their
ancient glory still and yield, as of old, that rich, rare fragrance
which never cloys. Surely no one ever walked among rows of blooming
apple-trees, and said, “It is too sweet.” Not even of our native wild
crab-apple is this lightly to be said, and it is unquestionably of
deeper tints and richer fragrance than the average cultivated tree. I
know of one exception. At the end of the row upon one side of the lane,
there stands a vigorous apple-tree. It has more the appearance of the
trees in the forest than of those in an orchard, and if its fruit is not
quite so small as that of the wild crab, it is but one remove therefrom.
This tree rests its glory upon its blossoms, and well it may! Upon these
go out all its strength, offering, therefore, beauty to the eye, rather
than food for the body. It is a tree with a history, perhaps, not worth
relating. When set where it now stands, it appears to have been more
exposed to the wind than its companions and was twice blown down. When
last put back, my grandfather remarked, rather impatiently, “Now stay,
at least, if you never bear an apple!” And the tree stood, still stands.
What of the fruit it bears? Tough, wrinkled as a toad, and sour; it is
said that even the pigs refuse it, squealing in disgust when, by
mistake, they crunch it. So, if my grandfather’s muttered curse fell
upon the fruit, the tree revenged itself by adding beauty to its
blossoms, and to-day, though twice hoar-frost has chilled the open buds,
if judged by the eye alone, it stands, among a goodly number, brightest
of them all.




                       The Building of the Nest.


Those who have lived a part or all of their lives in the country know
from observation, while those who have spent their days in town know
from hearsay or books, that a very large proportion of our birds remain
with us only from April to October or later; while yet others, on the
approach of winter, come from the north to escape the rigors of an
arctic climate, and a considerable number of most interesting species
are strictly resident. This striking feature of bird life is by no means
confined to North America, and perhaps it is, in most respects, more
suggestive as observed on other continents. However this may be, it is
so noticeable an occurrence on our Atlantic seaboard, that the coming
and going of this or that bird has passed into our folk-lore, and more
than one weather proverb is based upon the arrival or departure of
wild-geese, fish-hawks, and the swallows.

Although very much more is now known of these seasonal movements of our
birds than was but a few years ago, it is not yet, and probably never
will be, possible to determine the “law” of migration, for the simple
reason that the springtide northward and autumnal southward flight of
our inland birds has not that element of regularity as to dates or
method that has been so frequently insisted upon. They come and go, but
beyond this we can be sure of nothing from year to year. Sooner or
later, our warblers, thrushes, and fly-catchers come as the world grows
green; sooner or later, as the meadows and upland grow drearily brown,
these same birds depart.

But if, as to birds collectively, we can not be positive in this matter
of the time, place, and manner of migration, we can feel moderately
confident of a return, summer after summer, of certain individual birds,
if they have escaped life’s perils in the mean while. Says Dr. Robert
Brown (Birds of Passage): “The individual swallow, it is now
ascertained, returns from the Canaries or North Africa to the very spot
on which it built its little mud mansion the previous summer; and,
according to the observations of the celebrated Jenner, marked birds
were caught at their old nests every year for three successive seasons.”

I find the home hillside luxuriantly green to-day, although the first
week of May has not yet passed. Even the tardy oaks are well in leaf,
and from every nook and corner of the woods and fields there floats the
merry song of a nesting bird. Among them, are there any friends of a
year ago? Surely I recognize one. Long before sunrise on the morning of
April 26th I heard a loud chatter near my chamber windows. There was no
mistaking the creature that uttered it, and I knew, although it had
rained violently all the night, and was still storming, that the
house-wren had come back to his old castle on the post. I peeped through
the shutter as soon as there was sufficient light, and there stood the
little bird, braving a keen east wind and singing with all his might.
Now, the day before there were no wrens near; not one was skulking along
the hillside looking for nesting sites. Had there by chance been even a
straggler ahead of time, as is not uncommon with many migratory birds,
it would have been heard, if not seen, for wrens are never silent for a
day, if indeed for any five minutes of it, unless asleep. Therefore I am
confident that the plucky bird that I saw in the dawn of April 26th had
been guided by the prominent landmarks, such as the river, meadows, and
the wooded bluff, and had come directly to his home of the past summer,
hastening, when once he started, to the inconspicuous box that is
perched upon a pole close to my house, and hidden by two great
locust-trees and a towering wild-cherry. No stranger wren while yet it
was dark could have found the spot and proved himself so promptly at
home, for early that same day, while yet alone, the bird commenced
house-cleaning, preparatory to the one great event of the coming
summer—nest-building.

While not quite true that all worth knowing of a bird is centered in the
few weeks occupied in rearing its young, certainly at no other time is
it seen to the same advantage. Every faculty is quickened then, and all
that a bird is capable of effecting is apparent. Something more
important than food-getting commands its attention, and reason is
exercised almost if not quite to the exclusion of instinct, for the nest
of every bird must meet its builder’s peculiar needs, and is not
fashioned blindly after the homes of its ancestors. It is true that a
family likeness runs through the nests of a given species of bird, but
to say of a deserted one in autumn this or that bird built it is a rash
procedure.

Not every bird builds a nest, although all lay eggs, and, as has been
intimated, all nests are not alike. Perhaps the cup-shaped structure
built of twigs and lined with fine grass may be said to be the typical
form, but many are the modifications of this simple pattern. And now
this beautiful May morning the birds are building. Not here and there a
sparrow or a thrush, but birds of many kinds, and building everywhere. I
can not even mention them by name, or my article would run into a
catalogue. Suffice it to say they are building in the barn and on it, in
my house and down in the chimney; under the floor of the bridge in the
lane is a nest, and the trees, shrubbery, and bare ground are all
occupied. There is now a nest for every nook and corner, and I would
that the young people of everywhere were my guests to-day, provided they
would live up to the law I long ago passed for my own government—eyes
on; hands off.

And now what of the building of particular nests? I know of twenty
within a stone’s-throw of my front door, and the making of each one had
its serious as well as comic side. At the very outset a conflict of
interests arose on account of some bits of material being equally
valuable in the minds of several birds; and when an oriole, a wren, and
an English sparrow wish to pull at the frayed end of a rope at the same
time, something more than a mere ripple of excitement is likely to
ensue. In short, nest-building brings out in a bird not only all its
belligerency, which during the rest of the year is dormant, but a great
deal of strategic skill as well, for many a time I have seen the smaller
bird succeed through cunning in outwitting the bully that depended on
mere strength of beak and claws.

The burden of each bird’s mind in spring being, “I must build me a
nest,” let us follow the wakeful wren that came on a stormy morning to
his old home. He evidently was sure of his mate, and was for four days
ceaselessly at work. Perhaps he found odd moments when he could eat, as
he constantly did to sing, but never a leisurely meal was his, I am very
sure. The old homestead must be made habitable again. And how he worked!
All the old rubbish of last summer was pulled from the box, and none of
it taken back, I fancy. While I watched the busy bird two days after his
arrival, I recalled an occurrence of last summer, and wondered if there
might be a repetition of it, with my aid; and at all events the bird’s
movements would tend to show whether it was the same wren or not. So I
placed tempting material for nest-building on a piece of very thin
board, and set it afloat in a huge basin. It was directly discovered;
the old wren was looking for it, I am sure now, but last year’s tactics
were not repeated as a whole. Then the bird alighted on the strands of
hemp and submerged them and almost itself, and only after many trials
hit upon the plan of dipping down and seizing a strand while on the
wing. Would it do this now, a year later? I was all impatience while the
wren flittered nervously about the basin, but was encouraged by its
contemplative manner. At last it attempted to alight on the mass, and I
felt angry at its stupidity and my own overconfidence. But no! it proved
only to be an attempt; last year’s experience was remembered, and strand
after strand was deftly picked up while the bird was flying. I am
confident now that I am listening, while I write, to the very wren that
comforted me last summer.

While some of our birds content themselves with but shallow depressions
in the ground, and many others place together so few sticks (and these
ill-arranged) that the nest might readily be overlooked, there is one
bird that is too lazy to do even so much, but drops an egg in the nest
of another bird. This is the habit, too, of the European cuckoo, but our
cuckoos are nest-builders, and the bird to which I have referred belongs
to a very different group. Few people seem to know it at all, and yet it
is abundant over a wide range of country, and has a dozen names, mostly
meaningless. The best, perhaps, of them is “cowpen bird,” a name
derived, I suppose, from the fact that the bird is often found in
pastures where there are cattle or sheep. Indeed, I have often seen them
standing upon the backs of cows and sheep, catching flies, I presume,
though they seem to be quite inactive when upon such a perch. Although
not nest-builders, they have something to do with the building of nests.
When that tireless songster the red-eyed vireo builds its pensile nest
on the hillside, the necessity for concealment does not occur to the
bird, and so its home is often invaded by the female cow-bird, and a
single egg dropped into the structure as soon as, if not before, it is
finished. Sometimes this is put up with, sometimes not. I have many
times found nests that were two-storied, the intrusive egg being, of
course, in the basement, and destroyed. This is one of the best examples
of bird wit of which I know. A vast deal is taken into consideration
while the decision is being reached to build a floor over the obnoxious
egg, and so prevent its hatching. There can be nothing of all this
ascribed to instinct, for then all such eggs would be destroyed by this
means, and the bird become extinct. On the other hand, it is but a very
small percentage that have the wit or courage to undertake the work,
which is evidence enough that, of a given species of bird, the variation
in intelligence among individuals is very marked. This, indeed, we see
on every hand when birds are building. Particularly noticeable is it
when the female bird stays at home and arranges the material which her
mate brings to her. This is mere drudgery to the male bird, and too
often worthless bits are brought which the toiling builder promptly
rejects, and not always with becoming patience either. She speaks her
mind in unmistakable tones, and if not heeded after the second or third
scolding, open war is declared on the spot, followed too often by a
wreck of all their hopes.

A word more. If people, young or old, would get a correct knowledge of a
wild bird’s ways, would know what is meant by animal intelligence, let
them study a pair of nest-building birds while they are at work. Let
them draw near, but not too near, and see how carefully the work
progresses, how skillfully many a difficulty is overcome, how completely
the finished structure meets all requirements. Do this, but do nothing
more. Refrain from disturbing the timid builders; abstain from robbing
them when their work is done. By gentleness prove yourselves the friends
of birds, and they will return your kindness with a measure heaped up
and overflowing.




                           A Meadow Mud-Hole.


The least suggestive spot in the world to most people is a mud-hole. The
common impression seems to be that fish avoid it, that frogs and birds
pass it by, and plants decline to cover its nakedness. This, like a
great many other common impressions, is really very wide of the mark. If
the water be not unutterably filthy, fish will condescend to tenant the
shallow depths, frogs will thrive therein, bitterns and the little
rail-bird find such a spot attractive, and many an aquatic plant grows
nowhere else so vigorously.

There are, as all know, mud-holes that are but blotchy remnants of man’s
interference—mere accidents, as it were, which do not concern us; and
also those deeper scars where the fair face of the landscape has been
wounded severely, as when the ice-gorged river bursts its proper bounds,
leaving a shallow pool in my pasture meadow: such as these are never
beneath the notice of a contemplative rambler. The truth is, in the
valley of the Delaware the average mud-hole is eminently respectable.
Giving the matter a sober second thought, one will see that mud is not
necessarily offensive. That of the meadows, if analyzed, proves to be
compounded of very worthy entities—water, clay, sand, and leaf-mold.
Why, because they are associated, should they be so studiously shunned?
No chemical change has taken place resulting in the formation of a
dangerous mixture. Mud is unlovable only when you are made its prisoner;
but even a fool knows it is best to remain outside the bars when he
comes to a lion’s cage. The lily loves the mud from which it springs,
and who in the wide world loves not the lily? Let us accept her as an
authority that this mud has merit.

There is a typical earth scar of the worthier sort within easy reach of
my dooryard. I chanced upon it one February morning when the surrounding
meadows were frost-bound, but the water was free, sparkling, and full of
aquatic life; and there is not a month that it has not its growth of
green, if not a wealth of blossoms. Even the plant life of the preceding
summer serves as a covering in winter, and a January thaw starts the
hardier grasses as surely as it quickens the sheltered upland dandelions
into bloom. And on this bleak February day, when the meadows were like
smooth rock, the river a glacier, and with scarce a trace of green to be
seen on the hillside, the expanding spathe of the fetid cabbage—a plant
full worthy of a better name—was well above the ground, darkly green and
beautifully streaked with purple and gold; and a foot or more below the
surface of the water were even greener growths, tangles of thread-like
vine that quivered whenever a frightened fish rushed by. Indeed, these
delicate growths are a delight to our many hardy fishes that, scorning
to hibernate when food and shelter are so accessible, must laugh, I
think, at the darting ice-crystals that gather and grow strong until
they shut out the sun, but never reach their weed-grown habitations.

It was greener still in March; but in April, when the meadow ditches are
being decked with splatter-dock and calla, arrow-head and sweet-flag,
golden-club and equisetum, then from the bottom of more than one small
pond spring up sharp, spear-pointed rolls of rank green leaves, growing
until the water’s quiet surface is pierced, and a stout stem bears into
view two parallel rolls of delicate leaf tissue. I refer to the rare
yellow lotus. Perhaps not for all time a native, but it has long since
earned its right to a place in our flora.

Most interesting is the beautiful adaptation of the leaf to its
surroundings at the outset of its growth. Tightly twisted and pointed
obliquely upward, it meets with no resistance from the water, and runs
no risk of entanglement with other growths. Once at the surface, the
unrolling is rapidly effected, and a bronze chalice with an emerald
lining is ready to catch the dew as it falls. The circular perfected
leaf, often twenty inches in diameter, is usually supported on a
foot-stalk five or six feet in height, and among them often many
floating leaves. Certainly no other of our aquatic plants has so
striking an appearance, not even the wild-rice at its best—

              That tangled, trackless, wind-tossed waste,
              Above a watery wilderness.

Gray gives as the range of the American species the “waters of the
Western and Southern States; rare in the Middle States; introduced into
the Delaware below Philadelphia.” Introduced by whom? The Indians are
said to have carried it to the Connecticut Valley, where it still
flourishes in circumscribed localities, and this I find is the
impression in southern New Jersey and in the neighborhood of a little
lake in the northern part of the State, where also the native lotus is
found growing, but I have not yet found a positive statement to that
effect. Rafinesque in 1830 remarked, “As it is scarce in the Atlantic
States, it is said to have been planted in some ponds by the Indians.”

The fact that the Southern and Western Indians valued the plant is
significant. Nuttall records that “the Osages and other Western natives
employ the roots of this plant, which is of common occurrence, for food,
preparing them by boiling. When fully ripe, after a considerable boiling
they become as farinaceous, agreeable, and wholesome as the potato. This
same species ... is everywhere made use of by the natives, who collect
both the nuts and the roots.”

Early in the century it was growing in the meadows of the Delaware below
Philadelphia, and Dr. Benjamin Smith Barton considered it indigenous. He
says also that “efforts at cultivating this plant and multiplying its
sites of growth have been unsuccessfully made in the neighborhood.”

It is curious that Kalm, who gave so much attention to the food plants
of our Indians, should not mention the lotus. It certainly could not
have been at the time of his visit here (1748) a common plant, yet the
lower Delaware, where a half-century later it was still found, was a
locality about which he botanized with much industry. It is hard to
believe that, had he once caught sight of its enormous leaves, often
thirty inches in diameter, or seen the bright yellow blossoms on their
towering stems, he would have omitted to make mention of such an
experience. Kalm spent a considerable part of his time among his
countrymen at Raccoon, now Swedesboro; and at Woodstown, but a few miles
away, the native lotus grows luxuriantly, a relic, it is believed, of
Indian water-farming.

There is no improbability in the opinion that the Indians cultivated the
plant. They were certainly practical horticulturists as well as growers
of field crops. It was of an Indian orchard that the pioneer settler of
a New Jersey town wrote when he stated, in 1680, that peaches were “in
such plenty that some people took their carts a peach-gathering. I could
not but smile at the conceit of it. They are a very delicate fruit, and
hang almost like our onions that are tied on ropes.” The peach was
probably introduced into Florida by the Spaniards, and in about a
century or less its cultivation by the Indians had reached northward as
far as New Jersey. The nuts and roots of the lotus could as readily be
transported as the pits of the peach, so no obstacle was in the way.
Intertribal intercourse was very far-reaching, as shown by the
occurrence of peculiar forms of stone implements common in distant
localities, and Mexican obsidian and Minnesota red pipe-clay along our
eastern Atlantic seaboard.

While yet we have the Indian in mind it is well to refer also to the
very significant fact that these people took the golden-club (_Orontium
aquaticum_) from the tide-waters and planted it in upland sink-holes,
miles from the nearest spot where it grew naturally.

Perhaps we can never be positive about the matter. If a fiction, it is
so pleasing a one I trust it will never be overthrown. To stand upon the
bank of a pond and see in it traces of both an aboriginal flower-garden
and a farm certainly adds to the interest that surrounds the plant.

We have it on the authority of Emerson that Thoreau expected to find the
_Victoria regia_ about Concord. It was but an extravagant method of
expressing his opinion of the merits of that region; but I am not so
sure that the Victoria is the most beautiful of all aquatic plants.
Finding it growing and blooming every summer in an open field near by, I
have surely the right to express my preference for another. It and the
lotus grow in the same waters, and I love the lotus more, give it the
first place among flowers, although there floats upon the surface of
these same waters royal red lilies of India, tooth-leaved white lilies
from Sierra Leone, the golden one of Florida, and, perhaps more
magnificent than all, the splendid purple lily of Zanzibar. I can start
across-lots and quickly come upon them all in an open field; but it is
the lotus that holds me.

I can not rid myself of the thought that with the Victoria, as with all
its attendant lilies, the hand of the care-taker is necessary. A very
Amazon itself, it needs an Amazonian setting. We look for a naked baby
on the largest pad, and the infant’s mother in a canoe gathering
Victorian seed-vessels. These, with a troop of scarlet ibises,
spur-winged jacanas, and chattering macaws, are all needed to complete
the picture. With them, the world has perhaps nothing more striking to
offer; without them, the plant is too bizarre, too like the eagle when
shorn of its priceless gift of liberty. Not so with the lotus; it
accords well with the unpretending valley of the Delaware, is not a
thing apart, but the culmination, as it were, of Nature’s vigor here,
and seemingly not out of place even when it fills a meadow mud-hole.

One species is, as we have seen, truly American, native and to the
manner born, even if introduced and cared for by the Indian along our
Eastern seaboard; but now, where the wildness of the Indians’ day has
been long lost to us, and novelty is sweet, we rejoice to find the lotus
of the East is no longer a stranger in the land.

In a now nameless little stream, filling the narrow interval between low
hills, till within a few years there grew little but the yellow dock,
white arrow-leaf, blue pickerel-weed, and here and there a lily. It was
simply a typical muddy brook, such as is found everywhere in the “drift”
areas of the State. Every plant was commonplace; but far be it from me
to infer that any one was mean or meritless. Not a flower named but is
really beautiful; yet, save the lily, none would be gathered for
nosegays. Why, as is so common, speak disparagingly of the yellow
nuphar, our familiar splatter-dock? Let it be gathered with care, with
no fleck of tide-borne mud upon its petals, and see how rich the
coloring, and with what grace the flower has been molded. I doubt not,
were the nuphar fragrant, it would be extolled as it deserves, as, were
the rose fetid, it would be despised. Thus one writer remarks, “From its
filthy habits it has been called, with some justice, the frog-lily.” But
wherein lies its filthiness it is hard to determine. It has no decided
preference for waters too stagnant for its fairer cousin the white
nymphæa; and then smirched lilies are no novelties. A pond may be too
muddy for even them to preserve their purity, yet they will grow as
luxuriantly as their unstained sisters. That the nuphar may remain
longer in the polluted waters than will the nymphæa does not argue that
it prefers such conditions, and never a frog but loved clean water
better than foul. Botanists should not speak slightingly of the animal
world; it too has its beauties. And the reference to the frog shows a
woful ignorance of that creature.

How many have held the flower-stalk of the arrow-head—a sea-green staff
studded with ivory? They, at least, will admit its beauty. Nor will the
spike of violet-blue flowers of the pickerel-weed fail to be admired
even if gathered; and what flower when torn from its stem but loses
grace? No shrub so sprawling but fills its niche fittingly.

Where these native aquatic plants grow they complete the little
landscape. Each would be quickly missed were it absent; they are part
and parcel of an evolved microcosm, needing nothing. Such was this
little creek.

Into the deep mud of the stream, widened here by a dam to a pond of
several acres, a single tuber of the Egyptian lotus was placed eight
years ago, and the result awaited with much curiosity, if not anxiety.
That same year it sprouted and grew luxuriantly. It was soon too
prominent a feature of the landscape for its own good—the cows came,
saw, and tasted, but did not fatally wound. It withstood the summer’s
heat, but would it withstand the winter’s cold? The pond that before was
like all other ponds is so no longer. The native growths that seemed so
firmly rooted have disappeared, and the lotus has taken all their
places—so completely, indeed, that now even the water is shut from view
for more than an acre’s space. As the spot is approached from the
neighboring hill-top we get a bird’s-eye view, the effect of which is
striking and thoroughly un-native, so far as plant life is concerned,
and in a measure disappointing. Recall some rainy day in a crowded city
when from an upper window you have looked down upon the street. No
sidewalk and but little wagon-way to be seen—nothing but a waving
expanse of upraised umbrellas. Hence the disappointment, if you have
read travelers’ tales of the lotus bloom. But worthier thoughts well up
as you draw nearer.

One has but to glance over Gray’s Botany to notice how many plants have
been introduced from Europe, and are now so firmly established that
native species are forced to retire before them. The pond before me
exhibits another, and so recent an instance it has not yet been
recorded. What radical changes this Egyptian plant will work are yet to
be determined; that we can foresee one of them—the crowding out of the
nuphar—is unquestionable. That any change will be one to be regretted is
highly improbable. To introduce the lotus is not to repeat the blunder
of the English sparrow. It is certain not to oust other plants that are
more valuable, for as yet we have found little if any value in the
products of our marshes. Since the country’s settlement it has been the
aim of the thrifty to convert them into dry land whenever practicable.
Thanks to whomsoever thanks are due, many are irreclaimable.

Seeing how forcibly this wonderful flower of the lotus impresses itself
upon the minds of the ancient Egyptians and the East generally, how
prominently it figures in Eastern religions—“all idols of Buddha are
made to rest upon opened lotus-flowers”—it is safe to conclude that when
familiar to all, even in this utilitarian age, it will not be merely
ranked as one of many flowering plants; it is of too commanding an
appearance for this, and to literature will prove a boon. Asters,
golden-rods, and buttercups can have a well-earned rest.

Years ago the cultivation of the American species proved a failure, and
those who are now best capable of judging still record the curious fact
that the native lotus is much more difficult to establish in our waters
than the Eastern, and does not grow with quite the same luxuriance. Its
introduction by the aborigines along our Eastern seaboard has been
mentioned; perhaps it has lost vigor since it lost their care, and has
disappeared excepting where its environment was peculiarly favorable.
And the question arises, after all, Is it in the strict sense a native?
May it not, indeed, have been brought hither in prehistoric times? The
question of a superlatively ancient communication between the continents
is a tempting subject for study, and how appropriate when resting in the
shade of the Eastern lotus! Such a train of thought need not stir up any
ghost of a mythical lost Atlantis. Still, the American form has certain
marked peculiarities. The mature torus has a decided constriction some
distance from the insertion of the stem, wanting in the foreign species,
and the seeds of the former are globular instead of distinctly oval.
Whatever the history of the American form, that of the Eastern, or
Egyptian, as it is usually called, is too well known to need repeating,
however briefly, and yet the plant is still wrapped in mystery. A word,
however, concerning the term Egyptian in connection with it. At present
it is a plant of India, of China and Japan, Australia, the Malay
Archipelago, and the Caspian Sea—an enormous range; but it is no longer
found in the valley of the Nile. The use of the name rests upon the fact
that it was once there, not only a cultivated plant, but held sacred by
the people of that country, as it is by the Hindoos. Egyptologists,
however, are not of one mind as to the relation of the lotus to the
antiquities of the Nile region, some questioning the matter altogether,
and considering the sculpturing to represent the lily of the Nile, one
of the grandest of the white nymphæas. Quite recently, too, it has been
ably argued to be the renowned rose of Sharon. “Of such a kingly flower
Solomon might well have said, ‘I am the rose of Sharon.’”

Perhaps we should be contented with our splendid native flora, but
surely there is room in waste places, our unappreciated marshes and
mud-holes, for the lotus—

                   “a flower delicious as the rose,
                 And stately as the lily in her pride.”

A treasure in other lands, why should it not be in ours? If he who
causes two blades of grass to grow where but one grew before is a public
benefactor, so he who adds the lotus to our meadows must likewise be so
accounted. “A piece of color is as useful as a piece of bread.”

With the blooming lotus within reach, let us come now to a few plain
statistics. In the little mill-pond it has been exposed to precisely the
same conditions as the native plants, and now flourishes in absolute
perfection. Mingled with the fully expanded blossoms may always be seen
the buds in every stage of growth, and this from early summer until
frost. Happily there is not, as is so often the case, a magnificent but
brief display, then nothing but leaves. If not a joy forever, it is at
least one of a protracted season. Buds or blossoms, they are alike
beautiful. Among many that are pale yet distinctively tinted there often
stands out one or more with the loosening petals tipped with deepest
crimson. Far more are like gigantic tea-rose buds, that soon open like a
tulip, creamy white and rosy at the tips. Often these glorious flowers
measure ten inches across when fully open, and are supported by stems
extending far beyond the tallest leaves. One such that I measured was
more than eight feet high.

When the flower is fully expanded, the huge seed-pod, or torus, is a
prominent object. Herodotus likened it aptly to the nest of a wasp. It
is of the richest yellow, and surrounded by a delicate fringe of the
same color. The seeds are seen imbedded in the flat upper surface, gems
in a golden setting so lavish that their own beauty is obscured. After
the petals have fallen—they are miniature boats of a beautiful pattern,
that, catching the breeze, sail with all the grace of model yachts—this
great seed-pod continues to grow, and is a curious funnel-shaped
structure, holding the many seeds securely, yet not concealing any. The
latter become as large as hazel-nuts, and are quite as palatable. And
so, here in New Jersey, one can be a lotus-eater, can float in his canoe
and pluck fruit from giant lilies. But be not too free to do so. It is
not the fabled lotus, after all, and one’s digestion may be more
disturbed than his mind pleasantly affected.

In this isolated pond, seen by but few, and unknown to hundreds living
near it, a bit of a far Eastern landscape is reproduced—a forest of
graceful lotus, with its strange leaves, matchless blossoms, and
wonderful seed-pods; and what has been here effected is being repeated
in the mud-hole of my pasture meadow.

Less than a year ago, when spring was well advanced, I placed a root in
the mud, and left it to battle with the crowding native growths.
Certainly the advantage was all upon one side, but it did not lose heart
at being pitted against such heavy odds. Now it overshadows them all.
For a time they are permitted to be co-occupants, but not for long. The
lusty lotus is even now reaching out to a wide stretch of marshy meadow;
and there too, I doubt not, it will flourish as at my neighbor’s. It is
a rightful ambition to be able to sit down beneath one’s own vine and
fig-tree. Let me add the lotus, for it has come to stay.

For how long have water-lilies been on sale in our streets and at our
railway stations, auguring well for the love of aquatic plants? And that
strange and scarcely known lily, alas! of almost mephitic odor, the
xerophyllum, is hawked about Philadelphia streets in early June, loved
for its beauty despite the unfragrance; and so too this famous flower of
other lands must soon appear, but not to sink to the level of a mere
pretty blossom: it is too suggestive a plant to meet with such a fate.
What Margaret Fuller once wrote to Thoreau well bears repeating: “Seek
the lotus, and take a draught of rapture.”




                             An Open Well.


It is none of my business, but I feel a twinge of indignation when, as
is frequently the case, I meet with a pump-maker. His long wagon, with
its load of wooden tubes and other fixtures of the latest patterns of
simple or compound pumps, is a positive eyesore; for, labor-saving as
this may all be, it means, nevertheless, the obliteration of the open
well, and for the old windlass, or still older sweep, a hideously
painted post of wood or iron. He who has drunk, at midday in July, from
an old oaken bucket, knows how great a loss one suffers by the change.
Not even Hawthorne’s rills from the town pump can quite reconcile one.
Perhaps it is a fool’s errand, but I have walked a mile out of my way,
scores of times, for no other purpose than the pleasure of hearing the
bucket splash in the waters of a deep well and to draw it up, by means
of the well-poised sweep, “dripping with coolness.”

It may be fancy, but even modern well-diggers are a different and prosy
folk compared with the old masters of the art—for art it was, they held,
to locate with the divining-rod just where the never-failing spring was
“bubbling” far beneath their feet. Was a well to be dug? Then Ezek
Sureshot must do the work; and not until years after did it occur to any
one that Ezek never failed to learn the wishes of the women-folk before
he took up the forked witch-hazel and quartered the ground. The result
was always the same: that mysterious switch never failed to point within
an inch of the desired spot. Ezek was never known to disappoint his
customers, so not one suspected his duplicity or lacked faith in the
divining-rod. Ay! and there are yet hosts of people who still uphold its
power to locate not only water, but lost articles. A wheat stubble was
recently gone over, crossed and criss-crossed, with a divining-rod, to
recover a piece of metal. As the field was divided by the man into
square yards, it is not strange the bit of iron was found, but the
credit was given to the rod, which pointed earthward at the moment the
man’s foot struck the missing object. “In spite of what people say,
there’s something very curious about it,” was the remark of one of the
“head men” of the village. But this is a digression.

Happily, there are yet a few open wells scattered over the country, and
one of these, with its sweep, is within my range. Of itself, perhaps,
not a great deal can be said; but not every hole in the ground has such
surroundings. How seldom do we find still standing, and in good repair,
houses that were built early in the preceding century! Looking west from
my study windows, there may be seen a substantial stone mansion, built
in 1708. Woe betide the tall man that enters it carelessly in the dark!
The ceilings are unaccountably low. Evidently there were few giants in
those days, at least among the early Quakers. And, looking east, can be
seen yet another house, nearly as old, built of huge oak logs, the
ceilings of which likewise threaten the careless six-footer. Surely, if
my ancestors were tall, they must have been painfully stoop-shouldered!
By the kitchen doors of all the original houses there were open wells;
and the sweep appears to have been the first apparatus in use for
drawing water. From the doorstep to the well-curb extended a rude
pavement of flat stones, and, if all poetry was not smothered in the
old-time peoples’ breasts, there was an elm, or drooping birch, casting
a delightful shade in summer over all. Later the weeping-willow became
the favorite tree. Such was the pretty picture seen upon every farm;
compare it with the ugly windmills that now rear their hideous nakedness
against the sky.

From the general to the particular, from the past to the present. There
still stands a cottage, off a by-road, mossy as a prostrate oaken tree,
hedged with gooseberry-bushes and a clump of lilacs; and, better than
all else, there is the well and its sweep. I could never learn when the
cottage was built, but it was many a year ago, and its present occupants
may have commenced housekeeping as far back in time, to judge from
appearances. May they and the cottage last forever! Nowhere else can so
much wood-lore and wise weather-saws be had at first hands. Nowhere else
is there, at least for me, “the moss-covered bucket that hangs in the
well.” There are many features of primitive country life that are
fascinating, yet why they are so can not readily be explained. To linger
by this open well is one of these, yet why even hours can be spent at
such a spot one can not tell. Has it to do with a love of retrospection
common to all past fifty?—let this go for an explanation, whether one or
not. Stay! can it be that, after quaffing a gourdful of the sweet
waters, I recall many an invitation to the cottage, and hope? Even yet I
am as ready to respond when the old lady’s kindly face beams from the
open door, for straightway there are visions of cakes and beer, the
liking for which has never been even dulled. Ginger-cakes merely, but
such ginger-cakes! Spicewood beer only, but what sparkle, what tingling
spiciness! The very essence of the wild woods about the cottage, the
brilliant glistening of the old well’s brightest drops, here are
combined in a beady, golden draught that quickly inebriates—makes
drunken with a love of old-time cottage days.

The old lady’s gossip of the days gone by adds to the very sparkle of
her beer; yet her whole life for more than half a century seems centered
upon her one adventure, the coming and going of her children passing as
too prosaic to mention. Not so that one great fright and its results.
The now almost forgotten Camden and Amboy Railroad was then in
operation; but though scarcely more than a mile distant, it was as
nothing to her. She knew neither what nor where it was. But where the
best whortleberries grew in the back swamp, that was knowledge worth
possessing. Although her cousin Abijah had killed a bear during the
winter, she did not think of it then, and started for berries where few
men would care to follow. She knew every crooked path in the
sprout-lands, and could find her way through them in the dark, she
boasted. And so, with a light heart, she gathered berries. But at last
an ominous screeching fell upon her ears. She stopped her work to
listen. Louder and more angry, ay, and nearer, too, was that portentous
scream. “Could it be another bear?” she thought, and at once turned her
face homeward. The big basket was not quite full, and there were such
loads of fruit within easy reach! It was tantalizing; but all doubt
vanished with the second, shriller, more unearthly scream. The path was
no longer plain, nor she sure-footed. Pitching recklessly forward, the
berries were bounced by handfuls from the basket, and it finally, as a
dragging weight, was thrown aside. And, still sounding through the
swamp, the terrible screeching of that angry bear! The cottage at last
was seen through the thick-set trees, but not so plainly the tortuous
path. The frightened woman was moved by but one thought—to reach her
home; and, escaping until now all other dangers, she took one misstep,
almost at her journey’s end, and sank waist-deep in yielding mud. There
was strength left for but one despairing cry, which fortunately fell not
upon deaf ears. In a moment her husband came to her rescue. Such was her
story, but by no means as she told it—a quaint narrative that invariably
concluded with the pathetic remark, “And to think I lost all them
beautiful berries!” The old lady had heard the first screech of a
locomotive that awoke the echoes in the Nottingham swamps.

All the while her patient husband sits by the fire, giving vent to his
feelings by a vicious poke at the smouldering back-log. For fifty years
he has been her audience, and the story is now a trifle monotonous—so
much so that, no sooner has she finished, at least when I was present,
than he remarks, “If you tell the lad that story any more, I’ll a-wished
you’d stayed stuck in the swamp.” And then we have another cup of beer,
and, followed by the old man, I start for home.

And—isn’t it funny?—the old man tells me, as he has never failed to do
for many a year as I pause by the open well, where we part, how he found
gold, as he thought, when he dug the well, and kept the mighty secret
until his plans were laid; and it proved to be nothing but lumps of iron
and brimstone!

If old ladies prove, at times, to be a bit garrulous, what of the old
men who are so prone to criticise?

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                               PART III.

                               IN SUMMER.

                                -------




                            A Noisome Weed.


The whispering breeze that at sunrise calls me out of doors is laden now
with the matchless odor of the blooming grape. Every draught of the
vinous air intoxicates and the eye rests upon the brilliant landscape,
but is scarce content. A curious feeling of indecision meets me at the
very outset. Meadow and upland are alike urgent; field and forest offer
their choicest gifts; rugged rocks and sparkling river both beckon to
me. Whither, then, of a bright June morning, should the rambler stroll?
For is it not true that beauty, when in bewildering confusion, ceases to
be beautiful? When a thousand birds, as a great cloud, shut out the sun,
they are but a cloud; but a single one, perched upon a tree, is a marvel
of grace and beauty. So, the sloping hillside and the weedy meadows,
brilliant with every shade of freshest green and starred with a hundred
tints, roseate, golden, and white, call for an infinite power of
contemplation, and leave the wanderer dazed.

Shutting my eyes to the wealth of bloom about me, closing my ears to the
melody of every nesting bird, I start upon the doubtful quest of the
commonplace, hoping to chance upon some neglected spot, that happily
generous June has overlooked.

As has happened so frequently before, where I least expected it, there
stood the object of my search—a gem in a setting not so elaborate that
its beauties were obscured. In a long-neglected pasture, a wide meadow
torn by freshets, foul with noisome weeds, and strown with the wreckage
left by winter’s storms, grew many a graceful vine that few have heeded;
for it is not enough that the botanist should long ago have named it and
that others should have besmirched its proper fame by calling it
“carrion-flower.” Can we not forgive the offense to the nostril, when
the eye is captivated? Does it go for nothing that a plant beautifies
the waste places and invites you to contemplate it as the acme of grace,
because in self-defense it warns you to keep at a respectful distance?

Sitting in the pleasant shade of clustering thorns, I see nothing now
that attracts me more than the leafy bowers of this curious vine. Every
one has sprung boldly from the sod in full faith of finding the support
it needs; at least, I see none that are standing quite alone. Two, it
may be, but oftener three or four, have started at convenient distances,
and, when well above the tallest grass, each has sought out the tendrils
of its nearest neighbor and these have closely intertwined. So, here and
there, we have a leafy arch, and scattered among them many a pretty
bower. These may well have given the Indian a clew to wigwam-building.
Had ever, in the distant past, a savage seen his child creep beneath the
overarching branches of the despised “carrion-flower,” he would have
seen how easily a summer shelter might be made. Perhaps upon some such
hint the stuffy caves and rock-shelters were abandoned, for the time
surely was when even a more primitive dwelling than a tent was man’s
protection against the summer’s sun.

And may not these mutually supporting vines have struck the fancy of
some Indian poet? In the wigwams of these people, who but two centuries
ago peopled these meadows and the surrounding hills, may not many a
pretty tale have been told of these same despised carrion-flowers? Dyer
states, in his charming Folk-Lore of Plants, how, “in the Servian
folk-song, there grows out of the youth’s body a green fir, out of the
maiden’s a red rose, which entwine together.” I should not wonder at
learning that so too the Indian believed that from the bodies of braves,
who had fallen together, fighting for the same cause, had sprung these
intertwining vines that cling now so firmly to each other. Why, indeed,
should not the tragedy of Tristram and Ysonde have been re-enacted on
the Delaware meadows?

But, though despised by man, this vigorous plant has hosts of other
friends. The summer long, scores of bugs, butterflies, and beetles crowd
about. Whether when in leaf only, or later when in bloom, or in autumn,
when laden with its wealth of blue-black berries, it is never quite
alone, and many of its attendants are fully as curious as the plant
itself. One or more minute beetles prefer it to all other plants, yet
not because of the peculiar odor. At least, the same creatures do not
crowd decaying flesh. On the other hand, the dainty flies that linger
about the ruddy phlox, the blue iris, and purple pentstemon tarry
likewise about the carrion-flower and find it a pleasant place, if one
may judge by the length of time they stay.

I was somewhat surprised to find this to be the case, as I looked for a
repetition on a small scale of what is recorded of those strange plants,
the _Rafflesiaceæ_ found in the tropics. Forbes, in his Wanderings in
the Eastern Archipelago, records that once he “nearly trampled on a
fine, new species of that curious family...; it smelt powerfully of
putrid flesh, and was infested with a crowd of flies, which followed me
all the way as I carried it home, and was besides overrun with ants.”

So far my own observation. What say others?

Let us turn, however, to a more savory subject. Undeterred by possible
whiffs of sickening scent, I followed the example of my friend the
meadow-mouse, and crept into the largest smilax wigwam I could find. It
was sufficiently roomy for all my needs, and shed the sun’s rays better
than it would have done the drops of a summer shower. The east wind
brought the rank odor of the marshes, and more fitfully the tinkling
notes of the marsh-wrens that now crowd the rank growths of typha; but
sweeter songs soon rang out near by, as the nervous Maryland
yellow-throat, thinking me gone, perched within arm’s length and sang
with all its energy. The power of that wee creature’s voice was
absolutely startling. We seldom realize how far off many a bird may be,
when we hear it sing; often looking immediately about us when a strange
note falls upon our ears. Certainly this yellow-throat’s utterance might
have been distinctly heard a quarter of a mile away. Such shrill
whistling is no child’s play, either. Every feather of the bird was
rumpled, the tail slightly spread, the wings partly uplifted, and the
body swayed up and down as the notes, seven of them, were screeched—I
can think of no more expressive word. It was not musical; and yet this
bird has long been ranked, to my mind, as one of our most pleasing
songsters. It needs a few rods’ distance however, to smooth away the
rough edges.

But the great point gained in the day’s outing was to find that even the
carrion-flower could be put to such good use. It makes a capital
observatory, wherein and wherefrom to study the life of the open
meadows. To these Nature-built shelters you are always welcome; the
latch-string is always hanging out, and if perchance you do not share
its single room with many a creature that loves the shade at noontide,
and, so while away many an hour in choicest company, you may lie at its
open door and watch the strange procession that forever passes by. It
may be a mink, a mouse, or a musk-rat may hurry by, bound on some errand
that piques your curiosity. A lazy turtle may waddle to your den and
gaze in blank astonishment at you; and, better than all else, the pretty
garter snakes will come and go, salute you with a graceful darting of
their forked tongues and then pass on, perhaps to tell their neighbor
what strange sights they have seen. And as the day draws to a close,
what myriad songs rise from every blade of grass! Hosts of unseen
musicians pipe to the passing breeze; and crickets everywhere chirp so
shrilly that the house about me trembles.

The day is done; but the night brings no end of novelty. The moping
herons are no longer stupid; the blinking owls are all activity. Afar
off the whip-poor-will calls—who knows why?—and the marsh-owl protests,
as well it may, at such unseemly clatter. How quickly into a new world
has the familiar meadow grown! Through the half-naked beam and rafters
of my leafy tent I watch the night-prowling birds go hurrying by, and
follow their shadows as the weird bats flit before me, for the moon has
risen, and in its pallid light every familiar tree and shrub and all the
night-loving wild-life of the meadows is wrapped in uncanny garbs. It is
fitting now that a filmy mist should rise as a curtain and shut out the
view. “He is none of us,” seems to shout every creature in my ear, and,
taking the hint, I pick my way homeward through the dripping grass.




                            A Wayside Brook.


It is not that I may indulge in mock heroics that I champion the
so-called waste-places, but out of pure love for the merits of even the
least of Nature’s work. A single cedar casts sufficient shade for me,
and, resting full length on a bed of yarrow, I have, at once the breath
of the tropics and the aroma of the Spice Islands wherewith to while
away these July days. From such a spot there is pleasure too in watching
the shifting scenes of the sunlit world beyond—a pleasure greater than
peering into the depths of a dark, monotonous swamp or pathless wood.
But if this is simplifying matters beyond reasonable limits, then let us
to a wayside brook, and to the shade and spiciness add the music of
rippling waters. Surely this should suffice the idle saunterer at
midsummer. When it is ninety in the shade, it is wiser to watch the
minnows in a brook than to battle with pickerel in the mill-pond. Nor
should such contemplation be too trivial for one’s fancy. Even little
fishes have their ups and downs, although everything goes swimmingly
with them. As has been said somewhere, if my memory plays me no tricks,
the fish-world is diversified by other occurrences than feeding or going
to feed others. In other words, they have impressions, vague though they
may be, of the world about them, and existence is something more than—

          “A cold, sweet, silver life, wrapped in round waves,
           Quickened with touches of transporting fear.”

The brook need not be deep nor wide, and may wander through many a rod
of dusty fields, scarcely covering the pebbles that bestrew its bed, and
yet contain fishes. I have often been surprised to find many small
minnows in brooks that were scarcely more than damp, except here and
there a spring-hole, or pool, about the roots of a tree. Such places are
noble hunting-grounds if the rambler is an enthusiastic naturalist, and
many a chapter might be written concerning our smallest fishes. Except
to very few, they are wholly unknown.

On the bank of a little wayside brook I tarried for half a day recently,
with minnows, birds, and dragon-flies to keep me company, and what a
royal time we had! At first the fish were shy, and took refuge under
flat pebbles but I coaxed them forth at last by tossing crumbs before
them. At ease, so far as I was concerned, they commenced their beautiful
game of chasing sunbeams, the largest stone in the stream being the base
from which they ceaselessly darted to and fro. The flashing of the
fishes’ silvery sides, the darting rays of sunlight, the sparkle of the
great bubbles that danced on every ripple, proved a very carnival of
light and color, the soul of which was this company of fun-loving
minnows. In saying this, I intend to convey all the meaning that such a
phrase comprehends—in other words, to ascribe to these small fishes a
pronounced degree of intelligence.

Their life proved not without its shadows, however, as very often their
merriment was changed to terror in a twinkling. It happened that a
gorgeous dragon-fly came with a sudden onset to the little brook and
filled these fish with fear while it hovered above them. I leave it to
others to say why the minnows should have been afraid. Has any person
ever seen a dragon-fly catch a fish?

Prof. Seeley, writing of a European cyprinoid, remarks, “Probably every
person who has ever looked into a small stream has been surprised by the
singular way in which minnows constantly arrange themselves in circles
like the petals of a flower, with their heads nearly meeting in the
center, and tails diverging at equal distances.” I looked for this, but
our Jersey minnows were not so methodically inclined, and all kept their
heads in one direction, up-stream, until at a certain point, when, as if
on signal given, they would, right about face, and dart down-stream for
a yard or two, re-form, and as a company make their way to the
dispersing point, a thin slab of stone that barred their further
passage.

So, in this most unpromising spot I found no end of entertainment, and,
except in midsummer, would not have tired of any single feature; but
study, even studies a-field, are irksome in July, and I forgot the
minnows as my eyes fell upon a large slab of stone near where I was
lying. It was one of four broad stepping-stones that nearly two
centuries ago were placed here. Then, there flowed, through a thick
woods, a broad stream, and near here the first house was built. Upon
these stones had stepped the grave elders and loitered the light-hearted
children of three generations; and now not a trace of house, garden,
barn, woods, or pasture remains. Everything has given way to more
pretentious structures, broader fields, and painfully angular highways.
The one-time winding lane, shaded by noble oaks, is now not even to be
traced across the fields; and, instead thereof, a narrow sunny strip of
yellow sand leads to the public road. “What an improvement!” once
remarked a neighbor, when the change was made. What an improvement,
indeed! where once was beauty, one finds, save this little remnant of a
creek, an endless array of fields, with scarcely a tree along the
division fences. Doubtless, could the brook have been obliterated, the
work would have been undertaken. As it is, the narrow strip is all that
Nature can call her own, and so, whatever of her charms can find a
place, here she sets them down; and so here a rambler may be happy, or
fairly content at least, if he does not raise his eyes continually to
scan the horizon. I, for one, on the half-loaf principle, accept the
wayside brooks with thankfulness, and now after long years have found
that in many an essential feature they do not suffer so greatly as one
might suppose when compared with Nature’s more pretentious waterways.
Let Nature, on however small a scale, have the upper hand, and at such a
spot the rambler can afford to tarry. But perhaps I am partial, for this
was my playground, forty years ago; still, I would say—

          Let not the wayside dells go unregarded;
            Why ever longing for the hills or sea?
          Who loves earth’s modest gifts is well rewarded,
            And hears the wood-thrush sing as cheerily
          As when by mountain brooks it trills its lay,
          To soothe the dying moments of the day.

          Here, where no busy toilers ever rest,
            Where but the wayside weeds reach from the sod,
          I love to be the merry cricket’s guest,
            And find, though all is mean, no soulless clod;
          The bubbling spring, the mossy pebbles near,
          The stunted beech, they all are justly dear.

          Like-minded birds—so I am not alone—
            Linger as lovingly around the spot,
          Whose subtle charm such mighty spell has thrown,
            That wander where I will, ’tis ne’er forgot;
          Here, child and bird learned first to love the sky,
          The tree, the spring, the grass whereon I lie.

          When timid Spring warms with her smile the way,
            With all-impatient steps I hasten here;
          No bloom so bright in all the bowers of May,
            As the pale violets that cluster near:
          Bright grow the skies, nor troubling shadows fall;
          Childhood returns, when joy encompassed all.




                             Wayside Trees.


Who that has ever walked in the country has not blessed the farmer who
planted, or early settler who spared, the wayside trees? The average
country road, especially in the poorer farming districts, is something
deplorable. Only too often, even when shady and otherwise attractive,
there lies only the choice of wallowing through sand, stumbling over
rocks, or tripping over briers that would shame the Gordian knot for
close entanglement.

It is unreasonable to expect well-worn paths, far from the town’s
limits, unless Nature has provided them: but something a little better
than the remote highways, as they now are, might certainly be had. Is
there not sufficient tax collected in every township to secure this?
Probably the farmer who never walks to the village, and finds the
wagon-way fairly passable, may insist that the pedestrian can pick his
way, however rough the ground. True, but this does not dissipate the
pedestrian’s just claims. A man that must walk, because too poor to
ride, is none the less worthy of consideration, and may well grumble if
his right of way is blocked. Of course, man must take the world as he
finds it, and alter it if he can; and such an alteration is practicable
where good roads or foot-paths can not be, in the planting and
preservation of wayside trees.

Such was the current of my thoughts when I met, recently, the overseer
of a highway resting, at noon, from his labors. To him, and for him, a
little speech was made; and what was the reply? “Too many shade-trees
will encourage the tramps”! So he who loves to wander out of town must
take the dusty highways as they are, and sigh for pleasant shade he can
not enter. To plant a wayside tree, to have a country byway beautiful,
must not be thought of—it will encourage the tramps!

Now, it so happens that, near where I live, a chestnut-tree was spared,
two centuries ago, probably because it was too crooked for fence-rails.
Certainly for no praiseworthy motive was it allowed to stand; but it
does, and so to-day it casts a shadow in which half a regiment might
gather. Not strangely at all, every man, woman, and child in the
neighborhood loves the old tree, and points to it with pride. Were it
struck by lightning, it would have a public funeral. And yet I have not
found that any of my neighbors, except those very near the town, have
planted even a single wayside tree. On the contrary, a noble row of
catalpas was felled not long since for fence-posts!

A wayside tree means, to the pedestrian, something more than a mere
island of shade in an ocean of sunshine. A stately tree has many lovers,
and hosts of birds are sure to crowd its branches. Such a tree then
becomes the Mecca whereat the rambler spends the hours of hot high noon,
not only pleasurably but profitably—for I hold that a bird can not be
watched for long without gain. Is it nothing, as one rests in the shade
after a long tramp, to have a wood-thrush sing to him? Is it not a
lesson to the weak-hearted to hear the restless red-eye’s ceaseless
song? The perverse grumbler, has he a trace of reason, will, at least
secretly, own that much of which he complains might be far worse, after
listening to the singing of a bird perched in a wayside tree. Though
shorn of so much that Nature granted to the most commonplace of lands,
chaos has not quite come again. Certainly, however barren a sandy field
may look, it is not yet a desert.

As any ornithologist will tell you, birds, though there be little that
favors them and much that is harmful beset them everywhere, will
persistently cling to a tree by the roadside; will even nest in it,
although the ubiquitous small boy showers them with stones; and, more,
though persecution is the order of their day, will sing as in a paradise
regained, thankful that the world has even this much of untamed nature
left.

If, then, in spite of themselves, farmers love what wayside trees there
are, why can we not have more? Think of a leisured stroll, of a hot
summer’s day, through a long avenue of leafy oaks!




                           Skeleton-Lifting.


There are probably very few people but have seen the pretty stone
arrow-heads that are found, often in abundance, after the fields have
been plowed. I have often filled my pockets with them while wandering
about, and, in the words of a friend, “been amazed at the numbers which
are sown over the face of our country, betokening a most prolonged
possession of the soil by their makers. For a hunting population is
always sparse, and the collector finds only those arrow-heads which lie
upon the surface.” But if their handiwork is abundant, not so their
skeletons, and it is the uncanny taste of archæologists to prize the
bones as well as the weapons of the Indians. Still, it is not more
objectionable to carefully preserve the bones in a glass case than to
scatter them with the plowshare.

Because it is well to turn aside from beaten tracks occasionally, that
we may appreciate their beauty the more upon our return, and avoid the
danger of having the sweets of the upland or the meadow pall, I have
been indulging, of late, in archæological pursuits; been gathering
relics, though the locust and wild cherry drooped with their burden of
bright bloom, and the grosbeaks wooed me to the hillside.
Notwithstanding this, I resolutely turned my back upon bird and blossom
alike, and sought a neighbor’s field, over which waved tall and stately
grain. It was proposed to give the day, but, as it proved, the night was
added, to archæology.

There were weighty reasons, of course, for this intrusion upon my
neighbor’s land, as no sane man without a potent incentive would dare to
walk through growing grain. What moved me to so bold a deed was this:
Last autumn I discovered that my farmer neighbor had two skeletons, and
of one of which he neither had any use nor knowledge of its existence.
When apprised of the fact, he expressed no surprise, but resolutely
declined my offer to become the custodian of the superfluous bones, and
even went so far as to make appropriation next to impossible. But I
bided my time, and now, these bright June days, the grain kindly covers
the ground and every creeping thing upon it, as it proved when a dog
bounded into the field on the trail of a rabbit. I forthwith took the
hint and crept upon the trail of a dead Indian. The danger of
discovery—real, not fancied—gave something of zest to the work. With
only a garden trowel, the earth, over a marked spot, was carefully
removed, and as I had all the while to lie upon my breast while at work,
the task was a painfully slow one, and I more than once wished myself
away, until a few small bones were brought to light. Then all thought of
discomfort vanished. Bone after bone was slowly uncovered, but all,
alas! were so friable that not one could be removed with safety. In a
short time the entire skeleton was laid bare, but under what strange
circumstances! I had it within my grasp, but could not move it, nor
indeed myself, more than to crouch in the tall grain about me. It was
too like digging one’s own grave, and once, imagining an approach, I lay
full length by the side of my fleshless friend. The day of my rejoicing
had come, it is true, but there proved to be an overabundance of thorns
with the rose. Here was the long-coveted skeleton; but within hearing,
in the adjoining field, was a burly farmer, passing to and fro with his
plow. Whenever he came near, the grinning skull grew pale, as though it,
too, feared discovery; and so, until the dinner-horn sounded
across-lots, I was held a prisoner. How anxiously did I listen for
retreating steps and the rattling of the unloosened plow-chains!—welcome
sounds that came at last, assuring me that the coast was clear. Then,
leaving the treasure to the kindly sun that was rapidly warming it to
hardness, I sped dinnerward.

The Fates were intolerably cruel that day. At sunset, when I purposed to
return, innumerable obstacles loomed up, and every excuse to run away
from company that had most inopportunely arrived was pooh-poohed by
madam, in a most meaning manner; and it was just midnight when the open
grave was reached. The full moon at that moment broke through the
clouds, and a flood of pallid light filled the spot when I shook hands
with the fleshless warrior and forced myself to return the ghastly grin
of his angular countenance. There was something of defiance, too, in his
eyeless sockets, and a ghost of resistance as he was lifted from a couch
that he had occupied for some three thousand moons at least. The rattle
of his disjointedness was as harsh as the language that once he spake,
and while I thridded the woods and skirted, on my way home, the
resounding marshes, where every frog most ominously croaked, every
jostle of the warrior’s bones seemed to force a protesting syllable
between his rattling teeth.

With all deference to the votaries of archæology, skeleton-lifting by
moonlight is, I claim, a most uncanny pastime.




                      Why I prefer a Country Life.


Uz Gaunt was, in the writer’s experience, the most level-headed of
farmers. He once remarked, “Town folks smile at my vim and way of
putting things, but I’d rather be next neighbor to Natur’ than to most
of the town folks.” That remark impressed me many a year ago as a nugget
of pure wisdom, and now, when on the shady side of forty, I still think
it wiser than any casual remark, learned essay, or eloquent oration I
have ever heard in town.

It is a sad error to suppose that a rustic is akin to a fool; and a
citizen’s real worth may be measured by his manner of speaking of the
country people. That a significant difference obtains can scarcely be
denied, but it is not one that altogether exalts the dweller in town and
degrades the farmer. Will any one pretend to say that the latter is less
intelligent or refined? The simple fact is, the two classes are
differently educated: the townsman largely by books, the farmer to a
great extent by his surroundings; the former comes by his facts through
hearsay, the latter by observation. In other words, the citizen tends to
artificiality, the farmer to naturalness. The one is educated, the other
acquires knowledge. Dead, weigh their brains, and which may claim the
greater number of ounces?

And here let me say, in passing, that not all knowledge worth possessing
has yet got into books. Is it not true that the brightest features of
current literature treat of the world outside a city’s limits? What,
indeed, would modern novels be without something besides brick and
mortar for a background? Will the reader become enthusiastic over a
story the scenes of which shift only from Brown’s parlor to Jones’s and
back again?

The thrifty farmer may see nothing that attracts in the ball-room, and
fail to follow the thread of the story, or be charmed by the airs of an
opera; but has he not a compensation therefor in the Gothic arches of
his woodland, beneath which tragedy and comedy are daily enacted? And
what of the songs at sunrise, when the thrush, the grosbeak, and a host
of warblers greet him at the outset of his daily toil?

Town and country are interdependent; but, considered calmly and in all
its bearings, does not the former ask more of the latter, than _vice
versa_? Has not the influx of rural vigor an incalculable value? Does it
not prevent, in fact, the very destruction of the city, by checking the
downward course that artificiality necessarily takes?

But, as the heading of this article indicates, I do not propose to enter
into any controversy as to the relative merits of city or country life,
but simply to state why I prefer the latter. And may all those to whom
my reasons seem insufficient flock to the towns and become, what our
country certainly needs, good citizens.

I prefer an oak-tree to a temple; grass to a brick pavement; wild
flowers beneath a blue sky to exotic orchids under glass. I would walk
where I do not risk being jostled, and, if I see fit to swing my arms,
leap a ditch, or climb a tree, I want no gaping crowd, when I do so, to
hedge me in. In short, I prefer living “next neighbor to Nature.” I am
free to admit I know very little about the town. It has ever been a
cheerless place to me: cold as charity in winter, hot as an oven in
summer, and lacking nearly all those features that make the country
well-nigh a paradise in spring and autumn. Vividly do I recall the
saddest sight in my experience—that of seeing on the window-sill of a
wretched tenement-house a broken flower-pot holding a single wilted
buttercup, and near it was the almost fleshless face of a little child.

To be indifferent to the town is to be misanthropic, says one; and is
affectation, says another. Perhaps so; I neither know nor care. It
concerns me only to know it is the truth. None loves company better than
I; but may I not choose my friends? If I prefer my neighbor’s dog to my
neighbor, why not? I have not injured him, and, if harm comes of it, it
is the dog that suffers. Have not most people far too many friends?
Hoping to please all, you impress no one. You hold yourself up as a
model, and the chances are you are secretly voted a bore. Certainly, he
who lives where human neighbors are comparatively few and far between
runs the least risk of social disasters.

But there is a deal in the world besides humanity worth living for; and
I count it that the world was not made for man more than for his brute
neighbors. They, too, and their haunts, are worthy of man’s
contemplation.

Is it spring? I would catch the first whisperings of the soft south
wind, and hug the precious secret known, save to the flowers, only to
myself. And, as the days roll by, would watch the opening leaf-buds one
by one, and greet the first blossoms peeping above the dead year’s
scattered leaves. Is this a waste of time? If so, how is it, then, that
the earliest spring flowers need but to be taken to town to set the
people, one and all, agape? Is it nothing to brighten the dull eyes of
the weary toilers in the city? Verily, a violet plucked in February
preaches a refreshing sermon. And, yet again, when a faint shimmer of
green tints the wide landscape, I would catch the earliest note of the
returning bird as it floats across the wide meadow or rings with
startling clearness through the wood. Perchance along the river’s shore
I would hear the heaped ice crack and groan as the breath of Spring
snaps its bonds and sends this rugged gift of Winter whirling to the
sea.

Is it summer? I would catch the fragrant breeze at dawn, and mark the
day’s beauteous progress step by step; gather good cheer from the merry
thrushes’ song, and chirp as lustily as the robin though my task be
long. Even at noontide, be it never so sultry, I would take heart from
the brave field-sparrow’s hopeful tone, and lighten my labor with the
anticipation of long hours of rest, when the world’s best gift comes to
the fore—a moonlit summer night. Surely it is something to go hand in
hand with the year’s ripening harvest, for Nature unfolds many a secret
then, more strange than any fairy tale and more helpful than any fevered
fancy of vague theorist. Armed with such knowledge, the countryman is
well equipped to solve the problem of his life; and does not the toiler
in the town ask more frequently than all others that fearful question,
Is life worth living?

Is it autumn? The recompense for bearing the heat and burden of the
year’s long day is ours. What joy to contemplate the heaped-up treasures
of a fruitful summer, and know they are yours by right of a worthy
conquest wherein no one suffered wrong! Nor is Nature less beautiful or
less communicative now. Indeed, I hold her even more so. The ruddy tints
of the forest leaf mark the completion of a summer’s labor to which we
have given little heed as it progressed; but the woodlands invite us now
to see how beautiful as well as useful a tree may be, and open their
doors to “an annual exhibition” at which the world may well wonder. I
would rather have the autumn landscape before my door than its
counterfeit on canvas hung upon the wall. It is a comfort to know that,
be the former ever so gaudy, it can not be said to be unnatural. Thank
the stars! critics are dumb, whatever.
A pearly mist shut out the river, the meadows, and every field for
miles. I could not detect the ripple of the outgoing tide, and the
heartiest songster sent no cheerful cry above the wide-spreading and
low-lying cloud; but above all this silent, desolate, and seemingly
deserted outlook there was a wealth of sunshine and a canopy of
deep-blue sky. Here and there, as islands in a boundless sea, were the
leafy tops of a few tall trees, and these, I fancied, were tempting
regions to explore. Travels in a tree-top—surely, here we have a bit of
novelty in this worn-out world.

Unless wholly wedded to the town, it is not cheering to think of the
surrounding country as worn out. It is but little more than two
centuries since the home-seeking folk of other lands came here to trick
or trade with the Indians, wild as the untamed world wherein they dwelt;
and now we look almost in vain for country as Nature fashioned it. Man
may make of a desert a pleasant place, but he also unmakes the forest
and bares the wooded hills until as naked and desolate as the fire-swept
ruins of his own construction. It is but a matter of a few thousand
cart-loads of the hill moved to one side, and the swamp that the farmer
dreads because it yields no dollars is obliterated. He has never
considered its wealth of suggestiveness. “A fig for the flowers and
vermin. I must plant more corn.”

But here and there the tall trees are still standing, and their tops are
an untravelled country. I climbed an oak this cool midsummer morning;
clambered beyond the mists, which were rolling away as I seated myself
far above the ground, safe from intrusion, and resting trustfully on
yielding branches that moved so gently in the passing breeze that I
scarcely perceived their motion.

How much depends upon our point of view! The woodland path may not be
charming if the undergrowth too closely shuts us in. In all we do, we
seek a wider vision than our arm’s length. There may be nothing better
beyond than at our feet, but we never believe it. It is as natural to
ask of the distant as of the future. They are closely akin. Here in the
tree-top my wants were supplied. I was only in the least important sense
cribbed, cabined, and confined.

Wild life, as we call it, is very discriminating, and that part of it
which notices him at all looks upon man as a land animal; one that
gropes about the ground, and awkwardly at that, often stumbling and ever
making more noise than his progress calls for; but when perched in a
tree, as an arboreal creature, he is to be studied anew. So, at least,
thought the crows that very soon discovered my lofty quarters. How they
chattered and scolded! They dashed near, as if with their ebon wings to
cast a spell upon me, and, craning their glossy necks, spoke words of
warning. My indifference was exasperating at first, and then, as I did
not move, they concluded I was asleep, dead, or a dummy, like those in
the corn-fields. The loud expostulations gave place to subdued
chatterings, and they were about to leave without further investigation,
when, by the pressure of my foot, I snapped a dead twig. I will not
attempt description. Perhaps to this day the circumstance is discussed
in corvine circles.

It is difficult to realize the freedom of flight. Twisting and turning
with perfect ease, adapting their bodies to every change of the fitful
wind, these crows did not use their wings with that incessant motion
that we need in using our limbs to walk, but floated, rose and fell, as
if shadows rather than ponderable bodies. Until we can fly, or, rather,
ride in flying-machines, we cannot hope to know much of this flight-life
of birds, and it is the better part of their lives. But it was something
to-day to be with even these crows in the air. Following their erratic
flight from such a point of view, I seemed to be flying. We are given at
times to wonder a great deal about birds, and they have equal reason to
constantly consider us. Who can say what these crows thought of me? All
I can offer to him who would solve the problem is that their curiosity
was unbounded, and this is much if their curiosity and ours are akin. Of
course they talked. Garner need not have gone to Africa to prove that
monkeys talk, and no one can question that crows utter more than mere
alarm-cries.

A word more concerning crows. What so absurd, apparently, as this?

                    “A single crow betokens sorrow,
                      Two betoken mirth,
                    Three predict a funeral,
                      And four a birth.”

Yet it is a very common saying, being repeated whenever a few, or less
than five, fly over. It is repeated mechanically, of course, and then
forgotten, for no one seems to worry over one or three crows as they do
when a looking-glass breaks or the dropped fork sticks up in the floor.
Seems to worry, and yet I strongly suspect a trace of superstition
lingers in the mind of many a woman. Those who will not sit as one of
thirteen at a table are not dead yet. Can it be that all this weakness
is only more concealed than formerly, but none the less existent?

I watched the departing crows until they were but mere specks in the
sky, and heard, or fancied I heard, their cawing when half a mile away.
It is ever a sweet sound to me. It means so much, recalls a long round
of jolly years; and what matters the quality of a sound if a merry heart
prompts its utterance?

I was not the only occupant of the tree; there were hundreds of other
and more active travellers, who often stopped to think or converse with
their fellows and then hurried on. I refer to the great, shining, black
ants that have such a variety of meaningless nicknames. Its English
cousin is asserted to be ill-tempered, if not venomous, and both Chaucer
and Shakespeare refer to them as often mad and always treacherous. I saw
nothing of this to-day. They were ever on the go and always in a hurry.
They seemed not to dissociate me from the tree; perhaps thought me an
odd excrescence and of no importance. No one thinks of himself as such,
and I forced myself upon the attention of some of the hurrying throng.
It was easy to intercept them, and they grew quickly frantic; but their
fellows paid no attention to such as I held captive for the moment. I
had a small paper box with me, and this I stuck full of pin-holes on
every side and then put half a dozen of the ants in it. Holding it in
the line of the insects’ march, it immediately became a source of
wonderment, and every ant that came by stopped and parleyed with the
prisoners. A few returned earthward, and then a number came together,
but beyond this I could see nothing in the way of concerted action on
the part of the ants at large looking towards succoring their captive
fellows. Releasing them, these detained ants at once scattered in all
directions, and the incident was quickly forgotten. Where were these
ants going, and what was their purpose? I wondered. I was as near the
tree’s top as I dared to go, but the ants went on, apparently to the
very tips of the tiniest twigs, and not one that I saw came down laden
or passed up with any burden. It is not to be supposed they had no
purpose in so doing, but what? There is scarcely an hour when we are not
called upon to witness just such aimless activity,—that is, aimless so
far as we can determine.

Nothing molested these huge black ants, although insect-eating birds
came and went continually. One lordly, great-crested fly-catcher eyed
them meditatively for some seconds, and then my identity suddenly dawned
upon him. His harsh voice, affected by fear, was more out of tune than
ever, and, coupled with his precipitant flight, was very amusing. The
bird fell off the tree, but quickly caught himself, and then, as usual,
curiosity overcame fear. Students of bird-ways should never forget this.
The fly-catcher soon took a stand wherefrom to observe me, and, if
intently staring at me for thirty seconds was not curiosity, what shall
we call it? Is it fair to explain away everything by calling it mere
coincidence? It is a common practice, and about as logical as the old
cry of “instinct” when I went to school. To have said, when I was a boy,
that a bird could think and could communicate ideas to another of its
kind, would have brought down ridicule upon my head out of school, and
brought down something more weighty if the idea had been expressed in a
“composition.” I speak from experience.

To return to the cheerier subject of curiosity in birds: our large hawks
have it to a marked degree, and advantage can be taken of this fact if
you wish to trap them. I have found this particularly true in winter,
when there is a general covering of the ground with snow. Food, of
course, is not then quite so plenty, but this does not explain the
matter. An empty steel trap on the top of a hay-stack is quite as likely
to be tampered with as when baited with a mouse. The hawk will walk all
around it, and then put out one foot and touch it here and there. If we
can judge from the bird’s actions, the question, What is it, anyway? is
running through its mind. I once played a trick upon a splendid black
hawk that had been mousing over the fields for half the winter. It often
perched upon a stack of straw instead of the lone hickory near by. Early
one morning I placed a plump meadow-mouse on the very top of the stack,
to which I had attached a dozen long strands of bright-red woollen yarn
and a bladder that I had inflated. This was secured to the mouse by a
silk cord, and all were so concealed by the snow and straw that the hawk
noticed the mouse only. The bird was suspicious at first: it was too
unusual for a mouse not to move when a hawk hovered above it. Then the
bird alighted on the stack and walked about the mouse, pecking at it
once, but not touching it. Then putting out one foot, he seized it with
a firm grip, the talons passing through the carcass, and at the same
time spread his wings and moved slowly towards the lone hickory that
towered near by. I was near enough to see every movement. It was evident
that the hawk did not look down at first, and saw nothing of the
streaming threads and bobbing bladder; but it did a moment later, and
then what a quickening of wings and hasty mounting upward! The hawk was
frightened, and gave a violent jerk with one foot, as if to disengage
the mouse, but it was ineffectual. The sharp claws had too strong a
hold, and the effect was only to more violently bob the bladder. Then
the hawk screamed and dashed into the trees near by, and was out of
sight.

A curious and disappointing occurrence, while sitting aloft, was the
frequent discovery of my presence by birds and their sudden right-about
movement and departure. Occasionally I could see them coming as if
directly towards me, but their keen eyes noticed the unusual object, and
they would dart off with a promptness that showed how completely at home
they were while on the wing. Even the bluebirds, usually so tame, had
their misgivings, and came to rest in other trees. But if the birds were
not always about and above me, there were many below, and the sweet song
of the wood-robin from the tangled underbrush seemed clearer and purer
than when sifted through a wilderness of leaves.

It was not until noon that the wood and open fields became silent or
nearly so, for the red-eye came continually, and, whether insect-hunting
in the tree or on the wing, it seemed never to cease its singing, or
querulous cry, which more aptly describes its utterance. To hear this
sound throughout a long summer day is depressing, particularly if you
hear nothing else, for the steady hum of insect-life hardly passes for
sound. It was only when I listened for it that I was aware that millions
of tiny creatures were filling the air with a humming that varied only
as the light breeze carried it away or brought it nearer and clearer
than before. There is a vast difference between absolute and comparative
or apparent silence. The former is scarcely ever a condition of the open
country unless during a still, cold winter night, and never of one of
our ordinary woodland tracts. We do find it, however, in the cedar
swamps and pine-land, even during summer. I have often stood in “the
pines” of Southern New Jersey and tried to detect some sound other than
that of my own breathing, but in vain. Not a twig stirred. The dark
waters of the pools were motionless; even the scattered clouds above
were at rest. It was to be absolutely alone, as if the only living
creature upon earth. But ere long a gentle breeze would spring up, there
was a light and airy trembling of the pines, and the monotone of a
whispered sigh filled the forest. Even this was a relief, and what a joy
if some lonely bird passed by and even lisped of its presence! The
_dee-dee_ of a titmouse at such a time was sweeter music than the choral
service that heralds the coming of a bright June morning.

At noon, the day being torrid, there was comparative silence, and yet as
I looked about me I saw ceaseless activity in a small way. The ants were
still journeying, and red admiral and yellow swallow-tailed butterflies
came near, and the latter even passed high overhead and mingled with the
chimney-swifts. Had I been on the ground, walking instead of waiting, I
should have sought some sheltered spot and rested, taking a hint from
much of the wild life I was watching.

                              AT NOONTIDE.

           Where cluster oaks and runs the rapid brook,
             Repose the jutting rocks beneath the ferns;
           Here seeks the thrush his hidden leafy nook,
             And wandering squirrel to his hole returns.

           Afar the steaming river slowly wends
             Its tortuous way to mingle with the sea;
           No cheerful voice its languid course attends;
             The blight of silence rests upon the lea.

           Where the wide meadow spreads its wealth of weeds,
             Where the rank harvest waves above the field,
           The testy hornet in his anger speeds,
             And stolid beetle bears his brazen shield.

           Give them the glowing, fiery world they love,
             Give me the cool retreat beside the stream;
           While sweeps the sun the noontide sky above,
             Here would I linger with the birds and dream.

[Illustration: _The Chesapeake Oak_]

And now what of the tree itself? Here I have been the better part of a
long fore-noon, and scarcely given this fine young oak a thought. A
young oak, yet a good deal older than its burden; an oak that was an
acorn when the century was new, and now a sturdy growth full sixty feet
high, straight of stem to its undermost branches and shapely everywhere.
Such trees are not remarkable of themselves, though things of beauty,
but at times how suggestive! Think of pre-Columbian America; then there
were oaks to make men marvel. “There were giants in those days.”
Occasionally we meet with them even now. A year ago I camped on the
shore of Chesapeake Bay near an oak that measured eighteen feet six
inches in circumference four feet from the ground, and in St. Paul’s
church-yard, not a great way off, are five big oaks, one of which is
twenty feet around shoulder high from the roots. Such trees are very
old. The church-yard was enclosed two centuries ago, and these were big
trees then, and so older by far than any monument of white men on the
continent, except possible traces of the Norsemen. If a tree such as
this in which I have been sitting is full to overflowing with
suggestiveness, how much more so a noble patriarch like that upon the
bay shore! It is usually not easy to realize the dimensions of a huge
tree by merely looking at it, but this mammoth impressed one at first
sight. The branches were themselves great trees, and together cast a
circular patch of shade, at noon, three paces more than one hundred feet
across. As a tree in which to ramble none could have been better shaped.
The lowest branches were less than twenty feet from the ground, and
after reaching horizontally a long way, curved upward and again outward,
dividing finally into the leaf-bearing twigs. Course after course
continued in this way, the size decreasing gradually, and the whole
forming, as seen from a distance, a magnificent dome-shaped mass.
Comparisons with the tree’s surroundings were full of suggestiveness.
The ground immediately about was densely covered with rank ferns and the
acorn sprouts of one or two years’ growth. Yet, where they were, it
seemed but a smoothly-shaven lawn, so insignificant were they when seen
with the tree; and the sproutland beyond, which would otherwise have
been a wood, was absolutely insignificant. Yet, in truth, everything
here was on a grand scale. The ferns were tall, and to prove it I sat
upon the ground among them and so shut out all view of the great tree
and its surroundings. I spent many hours seated upon different branches
of this oak, and every one had features all its own. From those nearest
the ground I surveyed the bird-life in the thicket beneath, and was
entertained by a pair of nesting cardinal red-birds that came and went
as freely as if quite alone, and whistled cheerfully morning, noon, and
night. I fancied I made friends with these birds, for early one morning
the male bird came to camp, as if to inspect my nest, thinking I was not
up, and he expressed his favorable opinion in most glowing terms. A pair
of doves, too, had a nest in sight, and their melancholy cooing seemed
out of tune here, where Nature had done her work so well. Once, at
least, while I was there, the bald eagle came for a few moments, and,
big bird as he is, was not conspicuous, and had not a flash of sunlight
fallen upon his yellow beak and white head, I should not have been aware
of his presence, as he certainly was not of mine. What I took to be a
duck-hawk, a few days later, interested me much more. He was a splendid
bird, and tarried but a short time. The leaves so concealed him that I
was not sure, having no field-glass at the time, but do not think I was
mistaken. The eagle did not appear to disturb the fish-hawk’s temper in
the least, but the great hawk did, and he was much excited until the
bird disappeared in the steam and smoke that as a great cloud rested
above Baltimore.

The birds of this retired spot may be divided into two classes,—those of
the oak and of the sproutland growths about it, and the birds of the
air, principally swallows, which hung over the tree as a trembling
cloud. Never were swallows more numerous, except when flocked prior to
migration. In the tree and bushes were always many birds, yet often they
were far from each other. This gave me an excellent idea of what a great
oak really is. Birds quite out of sight and hearing of each other were
resting on branches from the same trunk. Although the middle of July,
there was no lack of song, and second nesting of many familiar birds is,
I judge, more common in Maryland than in New Jersey. Of all the birds
that came, the little green herons were the most amusing. A pair
doubtless had a nest near by, or young that were not yet on the wing.
They walked sedately along the level branches, as a man might pace up
and down his study, buried in deep thought. I listened carefully for
some expression of content, but they made no sound except when they were
startled and flew off. I was much surprised to find the beach-birds
occasionally darting among the branches, and once a spotted sandpiper
rested a moment near me. These birds we associate with water and the
open country, although this species is less aquatic than its fellows.
They were always in sight from the door of my tent, and always an
earlier bird than I. I recall now standing upon the beach long before
sunrise, marking the promises of the coming day, as I interpreted them.
The fish-hawks were ahead of me; so, too, the little sand-pipers. Their
piping at this time was very clear and musical. It was a delightful
accompaniment to the rippling water. The dear old song-sparrows were
quiet, and I was very glad; but with the first flooding of the sea with
sunlight they all sang out, and the Chesapeake was afar off and I in the
home meadows on the Delaware. I prefer novelty when away. It is well to
utterly forget, at times, that which we most prize. What boots it to
stand on the hill-top, if your thoughts are forever in the lowlands?
Twice, from the branches of the old oak, I saw a splendid sunset, but
nothing equal to the sunrise of to-day. With many a matter of this life
the beginning is better than the end. We had a superb sunset last night.
The color was gorgeous, but it was plain and commonplace compared to the
sunrise of to-day. Perhaps no tint was really brighter in one case than
in the other, but my mind was. The sunset was too closely linked with
the death of the day; there was the idea of a grand finale before the
curtain drops, and this tends to dull enthusiasm. It is not so with
sunrise. It is all freshness,—a matter of birth, of beginning, of a new
trial of life,—and with so happy an entrance, the exit should be one of
gladness only; but there is no trace of pity in Nature. In awful
certainty the night cometh.

I was not surprised at every visit to this tree to find some new form of
life resting on its branches. A beautiful garter-snake had reached a low
branch by climbing to it from a sapling that reached a little above it.
There was no break in the highway that led to its very summit. The grass
leaned upon ferns, these upon shrubs, these again upon saplings, and so
the tree was reached. Any creeping thing could have climbed just eighty
feet above the earth with far less danger than men encounter clambering
over hills.

And not only a zoological garden was this and is every other old tree,
but the oak had its botanic garden as well. When we consider that many
of the branches were so wide and level that one could walk upon them, it
is not strange that earth, dead leaves, and water should lodge in many
places. Indeed, besides the two gardens I have mentioned, the oak had
also an aquarium. But I cannot go into particulars. The parasitic
plant-life—not truly such, like the mistletoe—was a striking feature.
Maple seeds had lodged and sprouted, and in a saucer-shaped depression
where dust and water had lodged a starved hawkweed had got so far
towards maturity as to be in bud.

                  *       *       *       *       *

It may appear as utter foolishness to others, but I believe that trees
might in time become tiresome. Whether in leaf or bare of foliage, there
is a fixedness that palls at last. We are given to looking from the tree
to the world beyond; to hurrying from beneath their branches to the open
country. To live in a dense forest is akin to living in a great city.
There is a sense of confinement against which, sooner or later, we are
sure to rebel. We long for change. The man who is perfectly satisfied
has no knowledge of what satisfaction really is. Logical or not, I
turned my attention from the tree at last, and thought, What of the
outlook? Directly north, in the shallow basin, hemmed in by low hills,
lies the town. A cloud of smoke and steam rests over it, and barely
above it reach the church-spires and tall factory chimneys, as if the
place was struggling to be free, but only had its finger-tips out of the
mire of the town, of which I know but little. My wonder is that so many
people stay there, and, stranger still, wild life not only crowds its
outskirts, but ventures into its very midst. In one town, not far away,
I found the nests of seventeen species of birds, but then there was a
large old cemetery and a millpond within its boundaries. Time was when
through the town before me there flowed a creek, and a pretty wood
flourished along its south bank. The creek is now a sewer, and an open
one at that, and yet the musk-rat cannot quite make up his mind to leave
it. Stranger than this was seeing recently, in a small creek discolored
by a dyeing establishment, a little brown diver. How it could bring
itself to swim in such filth must remain a mystery. A queer old
character that had lived all his life in the country once said of the
nearest town, “It is a good place to dump what we don’t want on the
farm.” This old fellow would always drive me out of his orchard when
apples were ripe, but I liked him for the sentiment I have quoted.

I am out of town now, and what of the world in another direction?
Turning to the east, I have farm after farm before me; all different,
yet with a strong family likeness. This region was taken up by English
Quakers about 1670 and a little later, and the houses they built were as
much alike as are these people in their apparel. The second set of
buildings were larger only and no less severely plain; but immediately
preceding the Revolution there were some very substantial mansions
erected. From my perch in the tree-top I cannot see any of the houses
distinctly, but locate them all by the group of Weymouth pines in front
and sometimes both before and behind them. The old-time Lombardy poplar
was the tree of the door-yards at first, but these, in this
neighborhood, have well-nigh all died out, and the pines replace them.
One farm-house is vividly pictured before me, although quite out of
sight. The owner made it a home for such birds as might choose to come,
as well as for himself, and what royal days have been spent there! There
was no one feature to attract instant attention as you approached the
house. The trees were thrifty, the shrubbery healthy, the roses
vigorous, and the flowering plants judiciously selected; but what did
strike the visitor was the wealth of bird-life. For once let me
catalogue what I have seen in and about one door-yard and what should be
about every one in the land. At the end of the house, and very near the
corner of the long portico, stood a martin-box, occupied by the birds
for which it was intended. In the porch, so that you could reach it with
your hand, was a wren’s nest, and what a strange house it had! It was a
huge plaster cast of a lion’s head, and between the grim teeth the bird
passed and repassed continually. It promenaded at times on the lion’s
tongue, and sang triumphantly while perched upon an eyebrow. That wren
certainly saw nothing animal-like in the plaster cast as it was, and I
have wondered if it would have been equally free with a stuffed head of
the animal. My many experiments with animals, as to their recognition of
animals as pictured, have demonstrated everything, and so, I am afraid I
must admit, nothing. In the woodbine on the portico were two nests,—a
robin’s and a chipping-sparrow’s. These were close to each other, and
once, when sitting in a rocking-chair, I swayed the woodbine to and fro
without disturbing either bird. In the garden were a mocking-bird,
cat-bird, thistle-finch, song-sparrow, brown thrush, yellow-breasted
chat, and red-eyed vireo. In the trees I saw a great-crested
fly-catcher, purple grakle, a redstart, spotted warbler, and another I
failed to identify. In the field beyond the garden were red-winged
blackbirds and quail, and beyond, crows, fish-hawks, and turkey-buzzards
were in the air; and, as the day closed and the pleasant sights were
shut out, I heard the clear call of the kill-deer plover as they passed
overhead, heard it until it mingled with my dreams. “Providence Farm” is
indeed well named, for the birdy blessing of Providence rests upon it;
but were men more given to considering the ways and wants of wild life,
we might find such pleasant places on every hand. Farms appear to be
growing less farm-like. The sweet simplicity of colonial days has been
well-nigh obliterated, and nothing really better has replaced it. On the
other hand, a modern “country place,” where Nature is pared down until
nothing but the foundation-rocks remain, is, to say the least, an
eyesore. There is more pleasure and profit in an Indian trail than in an
asphaltum driveway.

Westward lie the meadows, and beyond them the river. Seen as a whole,
they are beautiful and, like all of Nature’s work, will bear close
inspection. The bird’s-eye view to-day was too comprehensive to be
altogether enjoyable: it was bewildering. How completely such a tract
epitomizes a continent! The little creek is a river; the hillock, a
mountain; the brushland, a forest; the plowed tract, a desert. If this
fact were not so generally forgotten we would be better content with
what is immediately about us. Mere bigness is not everything. So, too,
with animal life. We spend time and money to see the creatures caged in
a menagerie, and never see the uncaged ones in the thicket behind the
house. Every lion must roar, or we have not seen the show; a lion
rampant is everything, a lion couchant, nothing. There was no visible
violence in the meadows to-day; Nature was couchant, and I was thankful.
When the tempest drives over the land I want my snug harbor by the
chimney-throat. The sparks can fly upward to join the storm if they
will. The storms I enjoy are matters of hearsay.

Take up a ponderous government quarto of the geological survey and
glance over the splendid plates of remarkable rocks, cañons, and high
hills, and then look out of your window at the fields and meadow. What a
contrast! Yes, a decided one, and yet if you take an open-eyed walk you
will find a good deal of the same thing, but on a smaller scale. You
have not thought of it before; that is all. I put this matter to a
practical test not long ago, and was satisfied with the result. The last
plate had been looked at and the book was closed with a sigh, and a
restless youth, looking over the wide range of fields before him, was
thinking of the grand mountains, strange deserts, and deep cañons
pictured in the volume on his lap, and comparing such a country with the
monotonous surroundings of his home.

“What a stupid place this part of the world is!” he said at last. “I
wish I could go out West.”

“Perhaps it is not so stupid as it looks,” I replied. “Let’s take a
walk.”

I knew what the book described at which the lad had been looking, and
had guessed his thoughts. We started for a ramble.

“Let us follow this little brook as far as we can,” I suggested, “and
see what a stupid country can teach us,” purposely quoting my
companion’s words, with a little emphasis.

Not fifty rods from beautiful old trees the collected waters, as a
little brook, flowed over an outcropping of stiff clay, and here we
voluntarily paused, for what one of us had seen a hundred times before
was now invested with new interest. There was here not merely a smooth
scooping out of a mass of the clay, to allow the waters to pass swiftly
by; the least resisting veins or strata, those containing the largest
percentage of sand, had yielded quickly and been deeply gullied, while
elsewhere the stiff, black ridges, often almost perpendicular, still
withstood the current, and, confining the waters to narrow limits,
produced a series of miniature rapids and one whirlpool that recalled
the head-waters of many a river.

Near by, where, when swollen by heavy rains, the brook had filled the
little valley, temporary rivulets had rushed with fury over the clay,
and cut in many places deep and narrow transverse channels. From their
steep sides projected many a pebble that gave us “overhanging rocks,”
and one small bowlder bridged a crevice in the clay, and was in use at
the time as a highway for a colony of ants. Near it stood slender,
conical pillars of slightly cemented sand, some six inches in height,
and every one capped with a pebble of greater diameter than the apex of
the supporting sand. These were indeed beautiful.

“I have never seen them before,” remarked the boy.

“Very likely,” I replied, “but you have crushed them under foot by the
dozens.” They were not to be overlooked now, though, and in them he saw
perfect reproductions of wonderful “monument rocks” which he had so
lately seen pictured in the ponderous government geological report.

Withdrawing to the field beyond, where a bird’s-eye view of the brook’s
course could be obtained, we had spread out before us a miniature, in
most of its essentials, of a cañon country. The various tints of the
clay gave the many-colored rocks; the different densities of the several
strata resulted in deep or shallow ravines, fantastic arches, caverns,
and beetling precipices. On a ridiculously small scale, you may say.
True, but not too small for the eyes of him who is anxious to learn.

A few rods farther down the stream we came to a small sandy island which
divided the brook and made a pleasant variety after a monotonous course
through nearly level fields. A handful of the sand told the story. Here,
meeting with so slight an obstruction as a projecting root, the sandy
clays from above had been deposited in part, and year after year, as the
island grew, the crowded waters had encroached upon the yielding banks
on either side, and made here quite a wide and shallow stream. Small as
it was, this little sand-bar had the characteristic features of all
islands. The water rippled along its sides and gave it a pretty beach of
sloping, snow-white sand, while scarcely more than half a foot inland
the seeds of many plants had sprouted, and along the central ridge or
backbone the sod was thick set, and several acorns, a year before, had
sprouted through it. We found snails, spiders, and insects abundant, and
faint footprints showed that it was not overlooked by the pretty
teetering sand-piper.

Now came a total change. Abruptly turning from its former
straightforward course, the brook entered a low-lying swamp, crowded to
the utmost with dense growths of tangled vines and stunted trees. The
water was no longer sparkling and colorless, but amber-tinted, and in
many a shallow pool looked more like ink. Life here appeared in many
forms. Small mud-minnows, turtles, and snakes were found in the gloomy,
weed-hidden pools, and numberless insects crowded the rank growths above
as well as the waters beneath. The mutual dependence of vegetation and
animal life was here very striking. Previously we had found
comparatively little either in the brook or about it, but now our eyes
were gladdened not only with what I have mentioned, but birds, too, were
in abundance.

Bent upon freeing my native county from the charge of stupidity, I led
the way through this “dismal swamp.” It was no easy task. Nowhere were
we sure of our footing, and it required constant leaping from root to
root of the larger trees. There was at times no well-defined channel,
and often we could hear the gurgling waters hurrying beneath our feet,
yet catch no glimpse of them.

Here, too, other springs welled to the surface, and the augmented volume
of waters finally left the swamp a stream of considerable size, which,
after a tortuous course through many fields, entered a deep and narrow
ravine. After untold centuries the brook has worn away the surface soil
over which it originally flowed, then the gravel beneath, and so down to
the clay, thirty feet below. Upon this now rest the bowlders and such
coarser material as the waters could not transport.

Clinging to the trees growing upon the sides of the ravine, we closely
followed the course of the troubled, bubbling, foamy waters, stopping
ever and anon to look at the exposed sections of sand and gravel here
shown in curious alternate layers. The meaning of the word “deposits,”
so frequently met with in descriptive geology, was made plain, and when
we noticed of how mixed a character was the coarse gravel, it was easy
to comprehend what had been read of that most interesting phase of the
world’s past history, the glacial epoch, or great ice age. The gravel
was no longer an unsuggestive accumulation of pebbles, but associated
rolled and water-worn fragments of a hundred different rocks that by the
mighty forces of ice and water had been brought to their present
position from regions far away.

The ravine ended at the meadows, through which the waters passed with
unobstructed flow “to join the brimming river.” As we stood upon the
bank of the mighty stream I remarked, “This is a stupid country,
perhaps, but it has some merits.” I think the boy thought so, too.

                  *       *       *       *       *

The meadows are such a comprehensive place that no one knows where to
begin, if the attempt is made to enumerate their features. There is such
a blending of dry land and wet, open and thicket-grown, hedge and brook
and scattered trees, that it is bewildering if you do not choose some
one point for close inspection. From the tree-top I overlook it all, and
try in vain to determine whether the azure strip of flowering iris or
the flaunting crimson of the Turk’s cap lilies is the prettier. Beyond,
in damper soil, the glistening yellow of the sunflowers is really too
bright to be beautiful; but not so where the water is hidden by the huge
circular leaves of the lotus. They are majestic as well as pretty, and
the sparse bloom, yellow and rosy pink, is even the more conspicuous by
reason of its background. How well the birds know the wild meadow
tracts! They have not forsaken my tree and its surroundings, but for one
here I see a dozen there. Mere inky specks, as seen from my point of
view, but I know them as marsh-wrens and swamp-sparrows, kingbirds and
red-wings, that will soon form those enormous flocks that add so marked
a feature to the autumn landscape. It needs no field-glass to mark down
the passing herons that, coming from the river-shore, take a noontide
rest in the overgrown marsh.

I had once, on the very spot at which I was now looking, an unlooked-for
adventure. For want of something better to do, I pushed my way into the
weedy marsh until I reached a prostrate tree-trunk that during the last
freshet had stranded there. It was a wild place. The tall rose-mallow
and wavy cat-tail were far above my head, and every trace of
civilization was effectually shut out. It was as much a wilderness as
any jungle in the tropics. Nor was I alone. Not a minute elapsed before
a faint squeak told me that there were meadow-mice in the hollow log on
which I sat. Then the rank grass moved and a least bittern came into
view and as quickly disappeared. I heard continually the cackle of the
king-rail, and the liquid twittering of the marsh-wrens was a delight.
The huge globular nests of these birds were everywhere about me; but the
birds did not think of me as having any evil designs upon them, so they
came and went as freely as if alone. This is bird-viewing that one too
seldom enjoys nowadays. Often, and very suddenly, all sound ceased and
every bird disappeared. I did not recognize the cause at first, but was
enlightened a moment later. A large bird passed over, and its very
shadow frightened the little marsh-dwellers. If not, the shadow and
fright were a coincidence several times that morning. The day, for me,
ended with the unusual chance of a close encounter with a great blue
heron. I saw the bird hover for a moment directly overhead, and then,
letting its legs drop, it descended with lead-like rapidity. I leaned
backward to avoid it, and could have touched the bird when it reached
the ground, it was so near. I shall never know which was the more
astonished. Certainly, had it chosen, it could have stabbed me through
and through.

I was glad to be again on drier land and in open country. There had been
adventure enough; and yet, as seen from a distance, this bit of marsh
was but weeds and water.

Southward there stands the remnant of a forest: second- and third-growth
woodland usually; for trees of really great age are now generally alone.
I can see from where I sit three primeval beeches that are known to be
over two centuries old, and not far away towered one giant tulip-tree
that since the country’s earliest settlement had stood like a faithful
sentinel, guarding the south bank of a nameless spring brook. Ever a
thing of beauty, it shone with added splendor at night, when the rising
full moon rested in its arms, as if weary at the very outset of her
journey. My grandfather told me that in his boyhood it was known as the
“Indian tree,” because a basket-maker and his squaw had a wigwam there.
That was a century ago, and often, of late years, I have hunted on the
spot for some trace of these redskins, but found nothing, although all
about, in every field, were old Indian relics, even their cherished
tobacco-pipes. Small, recent growths of timber, even where they have
succeeded an ancient forest, are not, as a rule, attractive. Their
newness is too evident, and, except for a few passing birds, they are
not apt to harbor much wild life. As I look at the mingled foliage of
oaks and elms, beeches, hickories, and wild cherry, I give little heed
to that before me and recall forests worthy of the name, doing precisely
what I have declared unwise. A naturalist could find more material in
these few acres of woodland than he could “work up” in a lifetime. I
have underrated them. From the little thicket of blackberry vines I see
a rabbit slowly loping, as if in search of food. It is a full-grown
fellow, and suggests the round of the traps in late autumn and the woods
in winter.

I never knew a boy brought up in the country who was not at one time an
enthusiastic trapper. Just as mankind in the infancy of the world were
forced to pit their energy and skill against the cunning of the animals
needed for food or of such that by reason of their fierceness endangered
human life, so the country boy of to-day puts his intelligence to work
to circumvent the superiority of such animal life as by fleetness of
foot or stroke of wing can avoid the pursuer. It is a question largely
of brain against anatomical structure. No Indian, even, ever outran a
deer, nor savage anywhere by mere bodily exertion stopped the flight of
a bird. Men were all sportsmen, in a sense, when sport, as we call it,
was necessary to human existence. As centuries rolled by, such animals
and birds as came in daily contact with man necessarily had their sleepy
wits aroused, and now it is a case of cunning against cunning. We are
all familiar with such phrases as “wild as a hawk” and “shy as a deer.”
In the morning of man’s career on earth there were no such words as
“shy” and “wild.” They came into use, as words are constantly coming
into our language, because circumstances make them a necessity; and as
men were trappers before they were traders or tillers of the field, so
the words are old, and while animal life lasts they will be retained.

Nowadays we generally outgrow this love of trapping, or it remains in
the love of sport with gun or rod. But, old Izaak Walton and Frank
Forrester to the contrary notwithstanding, I hold that nothing in
fishing or shooting has that freshness, that thrilling excitement, that
close touch with nature, that clings to our early days, when, in autumn
and winter, we went the round of the traps. How through the long night
we had visions of the rabbit cautiously approaching the box-trap on the
edge of the swamp! How clearly we saw in the corner of the weedy old
worm-fence the stupid opossum bungling along, and awoke with a start as
the clumsy creature sprang the trap from the outside! I pity the boy who
has not had such a distressing dream.

No boy ever turned out before sunrise with a smiling countenance to milk
or help in any way with farm work; but how different when it was a
matter of the traps he had set the night before! The anticipation of
success is an all-sufficient incentive, and neither bitter cold nor
driving storm deters him. Of a winter dawn much might be said. No boy
ever was abroad so early that the squirrels were not before him, and in
the fading light of the stars he will hear the crows cawing and the
blue-jays chattering in the woods. To the naturalist, of course, such
time of day is full of suggestiveness; but the general belief that it is
a proper time to sleep will never be given up. Indeed, judging others by
myself, as the boy gets well on in his teens there is a growing
disposition to let the traps go until broad daylight and even until
after breakfast. This is unfortunate in two ways: there is a likelihood
of seeing animal life in the full flush of activity in the pre-sunlit
hours that is unknown as the day advances; the night-prowlers are all
gone to their dens, and the birds that roost in colonies have dispersed
for the day. One seldom overtakes a raccoon or a weasel at or near
noontide, and in the woods where a thousand robins have roosted there
may now not be one. Then, again, your visit to the traps may be
anticipated if you are too deliberate in starting on your rounds. This
is an experience that no boy of spirit can calmly undergo, and no
wonder. The rude box-trap was not easy to make, considering the usual
condition of tools upon a farm. The hunt for likely places whereat to
set it had been real labor. The long tramp in the gloaming when tired
out from a day at school; the early tramp, before sunrise perhaps, for
he must be on time at school that morning,—all this is to be considered;
but if success crowns the effort, all is well. On the other hand, to
find that some rascal has been ahead of you and your labor has gone for
nothing—— I never knew a boy to be a saint at such a time.

I can recall a well-marked rabbit-path I once found, half a mile from
home, and with great secrecy carried one of my traps to the place. It
was on the next farm, and so I had to be more than usually careful.
Nothing could be done in daylight for fear the boys living on that farm
would find me out, and this sort of poaching was not tolerated. At first
I was successful, catching two fine rabbits, and then, alas! was so
elated that, boylike, I said too much. Some one must have tracked me,
for I caught no more, although it was evident that the trap had been
disturbed. Straightway I suspected treachery, and prepared for revenge.

Now, auntie had a fur tippet, or “boa,” as she called it, which was just
six feet long. The moths one summer had ruined it, and for some time it
had been lying around uncared for and a plaything for the younger
children. This I appropriated, and fastened to one end of it a rabbit’s
head, with the ears wired up and with huge painted marbles bulging from
the sockets for eyes. It was a startling if not life-like creature.

Armed with this, I started after dark to the trap, and soon had all in
readiness for my victim. I coiled the “boa” into the rear of the box and
placed the head near the opening of the trap. The “figure-of-four”
triggers were laid outside in such a way as to suggest that the trap had
been sprung by an animal. Then I went home.

The next morning I went to school without visiting the spot, fearing I
might meet with the supposed offender. All day long I wondered. No boy
had any marvellous tale to tell and no one looked at all guilty. There
soon came over me a feeling that perhaps I had played a trick upon
myself, and by sundown I was rather reluctant to determine if anything
had happened; but go I did. The trap had evidently been disturbed. The
“boa” with the rabbit’s head was lying at full length outside and the
bushes were broken as if a bull had rushed through them. But who or what
had been there?

Two days of most distressing doubt passed, and then came Saturday. I was
ill at ease and took no pleasure in my holiday; but about noon our
neighbor came over, and I heard him tell grandfather how, on Fifth-day,
while the family were at breakfast, Bill, the bound boy, came rushing
into the room and exclaimed, excitedly, “Something from the menagerie’s
broke loose and got in the rabbit-trap!”

I had had my revenge.

A wood, to be at its best, should be located on the shore of a lake or
river, or, perhaps better still, a river should run through it. Here are
my impressions of such a wood, from my note-book of 1892, under date of
May 1:

Nothing could have been more fitting than to take a May-day outing at
such a place. The swift current of the Great Egg Harbor River rolled
resistlessly along, its waters black as night, save where, over the
pebbly shallows, it gleamed like polished amber. The wind that swayed
the tall crowns of the towering pines made fitting music, according well
with the rippling laugh of the fretted river, while heard above all were
the joyous songs of innumerable warblers.

We had placed our boat upon a wagon six miles below our point of
departure, and partly realized on our way what this pine region really
was. The cedar swamp, the oak openings, the arbutus that gave color to
the narrow wagon-track, the absence of man’s interference,—all tended to
give us the full significance of that most suggestive word, wilderness.
We needed but to catch a glimpse of an Indian to see this part of
creation precisely as it was in pre-Columbian days. I sat for some time
in the boat before taking up the anchor. This was but the entrance, I
was told, to spots more beautiful, but it was hard to believe. Here was
a river hidden in a forest, and what more could one wish? The warblers
well knew that May-day had come again, and every one of the mighty host
greeted the brilliant sunshine. There seemed literally to be hundreds of
them. Flashing like gems were redstarts, light as swallows upon the
wing. Bright-spotted warblers, and others sombre gray, laughed as they
tarried on the trembling twigs; then, mounting into the sunlight, sang
loudly as they flew, or darted into gloomy nooks so hidden that not even
a sunbeam could follow them.

The river with its attendant birds could not claim all the merit; the
land was no less beautiful. The oaks were not yet in leaf, but there was
no lack of green. The holly’s foliage was bright as May, the polished
leaves of the tea-berry shone as a midsummer growth, the ink-berry had
defied the winter’s storms, and the maples glowed as a great ruddy
flame. Really distinct as was every object, yet, as a whole, the outlook
was dreary, hazy, half obscure, as we looked directly into the wood,
where the drooping moss festooned the branches of the smaller oaks.

No voyager ever set forth from so fair a port.

My companion knew the route, and with an oar he took his place astern to
guide the boat safely down the swift stream. It was all right as it
proved, but at times I forgot that I had come to see the forest.
Instead, an element of doubt as to the guide’s ability came painfully to
the front. With devilish malignancy, as I thought, trees had prostrated
themselves and rested just beneath the water’s surface, or stood up,
with outreached arms, as if defying us. How we passed many a crook and
turn I cannot now remember. I was too much occupied with desperately
clutching at anything within reach to notice the “when” or “how,” but
there still remains the delicious sensation of suddenly shooting into
smooth water and feeling—brave as a lion.

For several miles on either side of the stream we had a typical mixed
forest. The willow-oak predominated at times, and the delicate foliage,
so unlike other oaks, was very beautiful. The leaves appeared
translucent in the bright sunlight, fairly sparkled, and once made a
splendid background to scarlet tanagers that flashed through them. In
this long reach of dense woods there were fewer birds than at our
starting-point, or perhaps they held back as we passed. But other life
was not wanting. From many a projecting stump there slid many a turtle
into the dark waters, and a mink or musk-rat crossed our bow. Careful
search would no doubt have revealed numerous creatures, for here was a
safe retreat for all the fauna of the State. The deer are not yet quite
gone, possibly a few bears remain. Certainly the raccoon and otter must
be abundant. I was constantly on the lookout for minks, for the river
abounds in fish. This animal is sometimes mistaken for a huge snake, as
it rises several inches above the water at times, and has then a rather
startling appearance. An old fisherman on Chesapeake Bay told me that he
had seen a mink with a huge eel in its mouth come to the surface, and
then the wriggling fish and long, lithe body of the mink together looked
like two serpents fighting. I can readily imagine it. Birches,
liquidambars, and pines in clusters would next command attention, and
usually there was a dense undergrowth. Holding the boat, at times, we
could hear the water rushing through the roots of this tangled mass, and
found that what we had supposed was firm land afforded no certain
footing, and a bluff of firm earth was very welcome when we thought of
landing for a hasty lunch. This _firm_ earth did indeed support us, but
in reality it was the most unstable of shifting sands, being held in
place by reindeer-moss, partridge-berry, and other pine-barren growths.
Nothing was in sight but the scrubby pines, and we had to be very
careful that our fire did not get among the “needles” and dash through
the woods. I found here absolutely no birds. They seem all to prefer the
tracts covered by deciduous trees; but insect-feeders could have
flourished here. The steam of our dinner-pot brought more substantial
forms than mosquitoes, one house-fly being determined to share my
Frankfurter and successfully defying all attempts at capture.

Again afloat, we soon came to the mouth of an inflowing stream called
Dead River, said to be very deep. This point was perhaps the wildest of
all. The open water here was very wide, and a forest of projecting
stumps of various heights showed plainly that we were on the edge of an
area of drowned land. In the distance was an unbroken background of
pines, which now looked black. At wide intervals could be seen huge
pines that had escaped the charcoal-burner or lumberman. The stems and
lower branches were, of course, concealed, but in the hazy atmosphere
the tops were as floating islands of darkest green, standing boldly out
against the pearly sky behind them.

Here, at the mouth of Dead River, we beheld a pretty sight. A wood-duck
with her brood rushed over the water in a most lively manner, flecking
the black expanse with patches of white foam. Such incidents add much to
such a journey. An empty forest is as forbidding as an empty house.

In the coves there were changes from the surrounding scenery that were
not to be overlooked. A rank growth of golden-club resting on the dark
waters was very striking. The picture was such as we see on a Claude
Lorrain glass. Near by fresh sphagnum in a shallow pool was bronze and
green: a place for frogs to squat unseen, but I could find none. How
often this happens! At the very places where we think animal life will
be in abundance we can find no trace of it. Then, looking up, we see but
trees. No break in the line that hems us in. Trees old and young, trees
living and dead, great and small; nothing but trees.

The wind freshened as the day grew old, and doubly troubled were the
waters. There was no rest for them now, even in sheltered nooks, and it
was only by sturdy strokes of the oars that we made headway at all.
There was no perceptible current to bear us along as before. The waves
dashing against the bare trunks of trees long dead and now bent by the
wind added much to the wild scene. Novel as it all was, I could not
quite enjoy it. It was something to be contemplated from the shore, I
thought. I know I was laughed at, but the many “blind” stumps, or those
just beneath the surface, of which my companion spoke so unconcernedly
came too prominently to mind when I least expected them, and added much
significance to the fact that I cannot swim.

As we neared home the scene abruptly changed, and the river was lost in
a wide expanse that might be called a lake if the fact was not so
evident that it is a mill-pond. This, however, did not detract from the
beauty of the surroundings, and before our final landing we drew up to a
bold bit of shore and searched, while it was yet day, for pyxie. There
was an abundance of blooming andromeda, too, and arbutus, with clubmoss
of richest green. I almost placed my hand on a centipede that glowed
like an emerald. It was resting on ruddy sphagnum, and made a splendid
picture. I could not capture the creature. An attempt to do so on my
part was followed by its disappearance with a suddenness that could be
likened only to the flashes of light that played upon its back. Here I
heard many frogs, but could find none. The rattle and peep were not like
the voices of those in the meadows at home, and I wondered about Cope’s
new tiger-frog and the little green hyla that is so rare here in Jersey.
Possibly I heard them both; probably not.

We returned to prosy life when the boat was lifted over the dam, and the
incidents were few and commonplace in the short drift that carried us to
an old wharf, a relic of the last century.

                  *       *       *       *       *

What a difference between such a forest and a few hundred oaks and ashes
at home! and yet these are far better than treeless fields. It is these
few trees that hold many of our migratory birds, and through them, in
spring, troop the north-bound warblers. In the gloaming a small tract of
woodland widens out, and, seeing no open country beyond, what does it
matter, if we walk in a circle, whether it be one acre or one thousand?
There is good philosophy in “Small favors thankfully received.” Here in
this little wood are beautiful white-footed mice, a shy, nocturnal
jerboa, flying-squirrels, and, if I mistake not, a whole family of
opossums. Here, until autumn, are wood-robins that never weary us by
overmuch singing, and cat-birds, chewinks, and the rose-breasted
grosbeak. I do not complain, but as the summer passes I regret that
these birds have their appointed time and will soon be gone. Why so
soon? I often wonder, for their haunts do not lose their loveliness for
weeks after they have disappeared.

                 No wall of green above, about,
                   They silently steal away;
                 With but a carpet of withered leaves,
                   The minstrel will not stay.

But the spot is no “banquet-hall deserted,” for all that; the departure
of the summer birds is but to make way for those who have gladdened
Canadian woods for many weeks. The purple finch will soon be here, and
tree-sparrows in great companies, and the gentle white-throat; and
these, with our stately cardinal for a leader, will hold forth
melodiously, though the north winds blow and the angry east wind brings
the snow upon its wings.

In the smile of winter sunshine there will be enacted another drama, but
now it is comedy rather than tragedy. There are no conflicting interests
now, no serious quarrels, no carking cares—the world is really in good
humor and our days of early darkness are misunderstood.

Let him who doubts—and there are but few who do not—turn from the worn
lines of travel, go well out of the beaten path, and find, in the
way-side nooks his neighbors have neglected, most excellent company:
birds of brave heart that can sing in the teeth of a storm; and many a
creature, wrapped in his furry coat, laughs at the earnest efforts of
winter to keep him from his outings.

Did I dare sit in this same oak when the leaves have fallen, I should
have strange tales to tell,—tales so strange that the summertide would
be commonplace in comparison.




                CHAPTER                          SECOND

                         _A HUNT FOR THE PYXIE_


No storm raged to defeat a long-cherished plan, and we must laugh at
threatening clouds or miss many an outing. In dreams the pyxie had been
blooming for weeks, and to prove that not all dreams go by contraries, I
started on a flower-hunt. This is not always so tame and adventureless a
matter as one might think. There are wood-blooms that scorn even a trace
of man’s interference, and the pyxie is one of them. Nature alone can
provide its wants, and only where Nature holds undisputed sway can it be
found. To find this beautiful flower we must plunge into the wilderness.

It was a long tramp, but never wanting a purpose for every step taken.
Each turn in the path offered something new, and if ever for a moment a
trace of weariness was felt, it was because even to our hungry eyes the
wilderness was overfull. Bewildering multitudes are more to be feared
than possible dangers. There is no escape from the former. Not a tree or
bush, not a bird or blossom, but to-day offered excellent reason why
with them we should spend our time; and how often they all spoke at
once!

Except the ceaseless rattle of small frogs, there was no sound, for that
sad sighing of the tall pines seems but the rhythmic breathing of
silence; or, passing from the wet grounds to the higher, drier, and more
barren tracts, we heard only the crisp crackling of the reindeer-moss we
crushed at every step. Although

           “It is the bright day that brings forth the adder,
           And that craves wary walking,”

we gave no thought to possible danger,—for rattlesnakes are still to be
found. Not even when we stooped to pick the bright berries of
winter-green did we think of a coiled serpent buried in dead leaves; and
what opportunity for murder the serpent had as we buried our faces in
pillows of pink and pearly arbutus!

At last we reached South River (in Southern New Jersey), and just here
was no place to tarry, unless to court melancholy. It was not required
that my companion should enumerate the reasons why the one-time farm
along the river-bank had been abandoned. A glance at the surrounding
fields told the whole story. There was, indeed, barrenness,—and very
different, this, from what obtains in localities near by to which the
same term is applied. In the so-called pine barrens there is a luxuriant
vegetation; but here about the deserted house and out-building there was
nothing but glistening sand, moss, and those pallid grasses that suggest
death rather than life, however feeble. And how widely different is it
to be surrounded by ruin wrought by man, and to be in a forest where man
has never been! Could I not have turned my back upon the scene and
looked out only upon the river, the day’s pleasure would have vanished.
But we were soon away, and a naturalist’s paradise was spread before us.
What constitutes such a place? Not necessarily one where man has never
been: it will suffice if Nature has withstood his interference; and this
is true of these pine barrens, this weedy wilderness, this silent
battle-field where the struggle for existence never ceases, and yet, as
we see it, peaceful as the fleecy clouds that fleck an April sky.

Though the wind that swept the wide reach of waters close at hand still
smacked of wintry weather, there was a welcome warmth on shore. The oaks
even hinted of the coming leaf. Their buds were so far swollen that the
sharp outlines of bare twigs against the sky were rounded off. The ruddy
stems of the blueberry bushes gave to the river-bank a fire-like glow,
and yet more telling was the wealth of bright golden glow where the tall
Indian grass waved in all its glory. The repellent desolation of
midwinter, so common to our cold-soil upland fields, was wholly wanting
here; for, while nothing strongly suggested life as we think of it, even
in early spring, yet nothing recalled death, the familiar feature of a
midwinter landscape.

The scattered cedars were not gloomy to-day. Their green-black foliage
stood out in bold relief, a fitting background to the picture of
Spring’s promises. That the sea was not far off is evident, for even
here, a dozen miles from the ocean, many of these trees were bent and
squatty at the top, as are all those that face the fury of storms along
the coast. Every one harbored north-bound migrating birds; restless,
warbling kinglets principally. No other tree seemed to attract these
pretty birds, many a flock passing by scores of oaks to the next cedar
in their line of march. The clustered pines were not similarly favored,
not a bird of any kind appearing about them, and life of all kinds was
wholly absent in the long aisles between their stately trunks. Our path
led us through one great grove where every tree grew straight and tall
as a ship’s mast. The light that filled this wood was strangely
beautiful. Nothing stood out distinctly. To have passed here in the
gloaming would have tried weak nerves. Even in the glare of noonday my
imagination was abnormally active, every stunted shrub and prostrate log
assuming some startling shape. Think of such a place after sunset! Let
an owl whoop in your ears when hedged in by thick-set trees!
Philosophize as one will in daylight, it goes for little now, and the
days of Indians, cougars, and all ill-natured beasts come trooping back.
This distrust of darkness is not mere cowardice, and I would accept no
one’s statement that he is wholly free of it. Every sound becomes unduly
significant when we are alone in a wilderness; often unpleasantly so,
even during the day, and

                   “in the night, imagining some fear,
                 How easy is a bush supposed a bear!”

Out of the pines and into the oak woods: the change was very abrupt, and
as complete as possible. Every feature of the surroundings was bathed in
light now, and the emergence from the pine forest’s gloom restored our
spirits. We are ever craving variety, and there was positive beauty in
every stunted oak’s ugliness, and from them we needed but to turn our
heads to see thrifty magnolias near the river-bank. These have no
special enemy, now that the beavers are gone, and thrive in the black
mud by the water’s edge; better, by far, than the gum-trees near them,
for these were heavy laden with pallid mistletoe,—to me a most repugnant
growth.

We reached open country at last, and here were birds without number. How
quickly all else fades at such a time! The whole valley trembled with
the ringing whistle of a thousand red-wings. A few swallows—the first of
their kind to return—darted over the wide waters and rested on
projecting branches of trees that floods had stranded on the islands.
The sprightly kill-deers ran with such dainty steps over the sand that I
could not find their footprints. They, too, were pioneer birds, but none
the less light-hearted because alone. They sang with all their last
year’s earnestness, scattering music among the marshes where frogs were
now holding high carnival. They were very tame, at least so far as we
were concerned, but a little in doubt as to what a stray hawk might be
about. But they left us only to make room for others, and whether we
looked riverward or landward mattered not: it was birds, birds, birds!
Here a hundred sparrows in an oak, there a troop of snow-birds in the
bushes, a whistling titmouse sounding his piercing notes, the plaintive
bluebird floating overhead, the laugh of the loon at the bend of the
river, and buzzards searching for stranded herring where the seine had
been drawn.

A flock of herons, too, passed overhead, and, had they not seen us,
might have stopped here on the river-shore. What an addition to a
landscape! and yet now so seldom seen. No birds can be more harmless
than they, yet not even the hawks are subject to greater persecution.
Not long since these birds were abundant, and a “heronry” was one of the
“sights” of many a neighborhood; but people now scarcely know what a
“heronry” is. The very word suggests how rapidly our large birds are
disappearing, and their roosting-places, where hundreds gathered and
nested, too, in season, are matters of “ancient history.” In fear and
trembling, the herons that linger about our watercourses singly seek
secluded trees wherein to rest, and, I fear, even then sleep with one
eye open. A fancy, on the part of women, for heron plumes has wrought a
deal of mischief.

But where is the pyxie? We knew it must be near at hand, but why make
haste to find it? All else was so beautiful here, why not wait even
until another day? The river-bank was itself a study. At the top, sand
of snowy whiteness; then a ribbon of clay over which water trickled
carrying iron in solution, that was slowly cementing a sand stratum
beneath, where every degree of density could be found, from solid rock
to a paste-like mass that we took pleasure in moulding into fantastic
shapes, thereby renewing our dirt-pie days.

A little later in the year, this bluff, now streaked and spotted, will
be green with the broad-leaved sundews, curious carnivorous plants that
here take the place of grasses. There is a filiform sundew that grows
near by, where the ground is high, if not dry; but it, too, waits for
warmer days. Not so the pyxie. Almost at first glance, as we left the
bluff, we saw it, sparkling white, nestled among the gray mats of
reindeer-moss, or fringed by shining winter-green still laden with its
crimson fruit.

Here the earth was strangely carpeted. Sphagnum, beautiful by reason of
rich color, gray-green moss, and the object of our long tramp,—pyxie. No
botany does it justice, passing it by with the mere mention of its
barbarous name, _Pyxidanthera barbulata_. It might be thought the
meanest of all weeds, but is, in truth, the chiefest glory of this
wonderful region.

Is it strange we regretted that Time would not slacken his pace? I know
not where else, in these northern regions, so much is to be seen, and so
soon. Spring, elsewhere, is the round year’s strangest child, often too
forward, and too often backward; but her accomplishments here and now
are beyond criticism. Such perfect work, and yet she is not out of her
teens. The day was April 1.




                 CHAPTER                          THIRD

                       _THE COMING OF THE BIRDS_


The moon in April is an important factor in the progress of that
event—the coming of the birds—which makes every spring memorable. While
not disposed to wait upon it too long, still, there is little doubt but
that the birds that have been wintering afar south travel very largely
by its light, and when it happens that the moon fulls between the middle
and the twenty-fifth of the month, the flights of thrushes, orioles,
wrens, and other migrants reach us a week earlier than when the nights
are dark during the same period. Temperature, storms, and general
backwardness of the season do not seem to have a like importance in bird
economy.

Of course, by the coming of the birds I do not refer to the pioneers
that are in advance of every company. Indeed, I have seldom announced
the first of the season, but I have been met by the man who was at least
one day ahead of me; so firstlings are not favorites.

There is every year the one memorable morning when we can say, in broad
terms, “The birds are here.” When the oriole whistles from the tallest
tree in the lawn; when the wren chatters from the portal of his old-time
home; when the indigo-finch sings in the weedy pasture; when lisping
warblers throng every tree and shrub; while over all, high in air, the
twittering swallows dart in ecstasy; and at last, the day-long concert
over, whippoorwills in the woods pipe their monotonous refrain. The
Indians were right: when there came such days as this, they had no
further fear of frost, and we need have but little. Our climate
certainly has changed slightly since their time, but we have in such a
bird-full day an assurance that the clinging finger-tips of Winter have
at last relaxed and his hold upon our fields and forests is lost.

A word again of the advance guard. The brown thrush came on the
seventeenth of the month (April, 1892), when there were no leafy
thickets and the maples only were in bloom. What a glorious herald he
proved! and so he always proves. Before the sun was up I heard him in my
dreams, and later the fancy proved a fact. Perched at the very top of an
old walnut-tree, where the wintry world was spread before him, he sang
that song peculiarly his own.

          No hint of blushing roses on the hill,
            The buds are sleeping yet upon the plain,
          The blight of dreary winter clingeth still,
            The forest weeps where falls the chilly rain.

          Scarce hopeful leaf-buds shrink—death’s solemn hush
            Rests on the field, the meadow brook along,
          Till breaks the day, O happy day! the thrush
            Foretells the coming summer in a song.

Two days later it was almost summer, and tripping along the river’s
pebbly beach were spotted sand-pipers. They were ahead of time this
year, I thought, but none the less happy because the trees were bare and
the water cold; but, stranger still, in the sheltered coves of the
mill-pond, that now reflected the gold of the spice-wood and the crimson
of the overhanging maples, there were warblers, merry as in midsummer,
and a pair, at least, of small thrushes. A bittern, too, stood in the
weedy marsh. There they had gathered on that sunny, summery day, as if
warm weather was an established fact; but how different the next
morning, when a cold north-east storm prevailed! How well it showed that
one such sunny day does not make a season! How clearly it proved that
birds have no prophetic insight! They were caught and suffered and
disappeared. Did they fly above the clouds and go to some distant point,
free of chilling rain, or did they hide in the cedar swamps? This
problem I did not essay to solve. In the few cedars along the
river-shore I found nothing but winter residents, but I made no careful
search. A few days later and spring-like conditions again prevailed and
every day some new bird was seen, but not until May 1 could we say, “The
birds have come.”

These uncertain April days are not disappointing. We are not warranted
in expecting much of them, and whatsoever we do meet with is just so
much more than we had reason to look for,—an added bit of good luck that
increases our love for the year’s fourth month; but if no migrant came,
there is little likelihood that the pastures and rivershore would be
silent. There never was an April that had not its full complement of
robins and blithe meadow-larks, of glorious crested tits and gay
cardinals, of restless red-wings and stately grakles, and these are
quite equal to driving dull care away, and keeping it away, if the
migrants did not come at all. Even in March, and early in the month, we
often have a foretaste of abundant bird-life; an intimation of what a
few weeks will bring us. A bright March morning in 1893 was an instance
of this. I walked for miles along the river-bank with a learned German
who was enthusiastic about everything but what interested me. This may
not seem to be a promising outlook, but we undertook to convert each
other. I was to give up my frivolity, he determined. My effort was to
get his dry-as-dust whimsies out of him. The great ice-gorge of the past
winter was now a torrent of muddy waters and huge cakes of crystal that
rushed and roared not only through the river’s channel, but over half
the meadow-land that bordered it. It was, I admit, an excellent
opportunity to study the effects of such occurrences, for to them is due
the shaping of the valley, and gravel transportation, and all that; but
then there was the effect of light and shade upon the wonderful scene,
and beauty like this crowded out my taste for geology. The sky was
darkly blue, flecked with great masses of snow white-cloud that drifted
between the sun and earth, casting shadows that blackened the ice and
brought winter back again; but a moment later a flood of sunshine as
promptly changed all, and the bluebirds hinted of spring. Then, too, the
gulls and crows screamed above the roar and crunching of the ice as it
struck the scattered trees, while in every sheltered nook was a full
complement of song-sparrows. Why any one should bother about geology at
such a time I could not see; but my companion was intent upon problems
of the ice age, and continually remarked, “Now, if” or “Don’t you see?”
but I always cut him short with “See that crow?” or “Hear that sparrow?”
No, he had not seen or heard the birds, and neither had I his particular
impressions. At last the sunshine broke upon him, and he laughed aloud
when he saw the crows trying to steal a ride on ice-rafts that
continually upset. I was hopeful now, and he soon heard the birds that
sang, and whistled after a long line of kill-deer plover that hurried
by, every one calling to his fellows. It was something to know that the
coming of the birds can rouse a German out of his everlasting problems.
He had more to say of the springtide so near at hand than had I, and,
nosing over the ground, found nine vigorous plants in active growth, and
spoke so learnedly of _Cyperus_, _Galium_, _Allium_, and _Saponaria_
that I as glibly thought, in jealous mood, “Confound him!” for now he
was taking possession of my province and showing me my littleness; but
then I had dragged him out of his problems.

The truth is, I was in something like despair when we started out, for I
feared a lecture on physical geography, and, indeed, did not quite
escape; but the bitter was well mixed with the sweet, and he in time
listened with all my ardor to the birds that braved the boisterous wind
and were not afraid of a river wilder than they had ever seen before.
The day proved to be of more significance than as regards mere glacial
geology. It was a foretaste of what was coming in April. I drew a
glowing picture of what our April meant, and pictured a peaceful river
and violets and meadow blossoms as bright as they were fragrant. My
learned friend smiled, then grew enthusiastic; must come again to see
the birds as they arrived, and—must I say it?—spoke of beer. Alas! it
was Sunday.

There are two reasons why April birds are particularly attractive. One
is, there are fewer of them, and again, there is practically no foliage
to conceal them. Better one bird in full view than a dozen half hidden.
Their songs, too, have a flavor of novelty, and ring so assuringly
through the leafless woods. The ear forever bends graciously to
promises, even though we know they will be broken; but birds, unlike
men, are not given to lying. When they promise May flowers and green
leaves they mean it, and, so far as history records, there has never
been a May without them, not even the cold May of 1816, when there was
ice and snow. But aside from their singing, April birds offer the
opportunity of studying their manners, which is better to know than the
number of their tail-feathers or the color of their eggs. The brown
thrush that sings so glibly from the bare branch of a lonely tree shows
now, by his way of holding himself and pointing his tail, that he is
closely akin to the little wrens and their big cousin, the Carolina
mocker, so called, which does not mock at all. Of all our April birds, I
believe I love best the chewink, or swamp-robin. To be sure, he is no
more a feature of April than of June, and many are here all winter; but
when he scatters the dead leaves and whistles his bi-syllabic refrain
with a vim that rouses an echo, or mounts a bush and sings his few notes
of real music, we forget that summer is only on the way, but not yet
here. Of all our birds, I always fancied this one was most set in his
singing, as he surely is in his ways; but Cheney tells us that "this
bird, like many others, can extemporize finely when the spirit moves
him. For several successive days one season a chewink gave me very
interesting exhibitions of the kind. He fairly revelled in the new song,
repeating it times without number. Whether he stole it from the first
strain of ‘Rock of Ages’ or it was stolen from him or some of his
family, is a question yet to be decided." Now, the chewink is a bird of
character, and, above all things, dislikes interference, and he sings
“for his own pleasure, for he frequently lets himself out lustily when
he knows he is all alone,” as Dr. Placzeck has said of birds in general.
I shall never forget a little incident I once witnessed, in which a
chewink and a cardinal grosbeak figured. They reached the same bush at
the same moment, and both started their songs. The loud whistle of the
red-bird quite smothered the notes of the chewink, which stopped
suddenly before it was through and, with a squeak of impatience, made a
dash at the intruder and nearly knocked him off his perch. Such haps and
mishaps as these—and they are continually occurring—can only be seen in
April or earlier, when we can see through the woods, and not merely the
outer branches of the trees when in leaf. In April we can detect, too,
the earliest flowers, and they fit well with the songs of the
forerunning birds. There is more, I think, for all of us in an April
violet than in a June rose; in a sheltered bit of turf with sprouting
grass than in the wide pastures a month later. We do not hurry in-doors
at the sudden coming of an April shower. The rain-drops that cling to
the opening leaf-buds are too near real gems not to be fancied a
veritable gift to us, and we toy with the baubles for the brief moment
that they are ours. The sunshine that follows such a shower has greater
magic in its touch than it possesses later in the year; the buds of the
morning now are blossoms in the afternoon, so quickening is the warmth
of the first few days of spring. The stain of winter is washed away by
an April shower, and the freshest green of the pasture is ever that
which is newest. There is at times a subtle element in the atmosphere
that the chemist calls “ozone,” but a better name is “snap.” It dwells
in April sunshine and is the inveterate foe of inertia. It moves us,
whether we will or not, and we are now in a hurry even when there is no
need of haste. The “spring fever” that we hear of as a malady in town
never counts as its victim the lover of an April outing. The beauty of
novelty is greater than the beauty of abundance. Our recollection of a
whole summer is but dim at best, but who forgets the beginnings thereof?
We passed by unheeding many a sweet song before the season was over, but
can recall, I venture to say, our first glimpse of the returning spring.
Though the sky may be gray, the earth brown, and the wind out of the
north, let a thrush sing, a kinglet lisp, a crested tit whistle, and a
tree-sparrow chirp among the swelling leaf-buds, and you have seen and
heard that which is not only a delight in itself, but the more pleasing
that it is the prelude announcing the general coming of the birds.




                CHAPTER                          FOURTH

                         _THE BUILDING OF THE_
                                 _NEST_


There are probably very few children who are not more or less familiar
with birds’ nests, for they are not by any means confined to the
country, but are to be found in the shade trees of every village street,
to say nothing of the old-time lilac hedges, gooseberry bushes, and
homely shrubbery of fifty years ago. Even in our large cities there are
some few birds brave enough to make their homes in or very near the
busiest thoroughfares. As an instance, it was not so long ago that a
yellow-breasted chat—a shy bird—nested in the yard of the Pennsylvania
Hospital, at the corner of Eighth and Spruce Streets, Philadelphia, and
soon learned to mimic many a familiar street sound. Such instances as
these were more common before the unfortunate blunder of introducing the
English sparrow. But it is in the country only that we find boys really
posted in the matter of nests, and I wish I could add that they always
adopt the rules of “hands off” when these nests come under their notice.
It means far more mischief than most people think to disturb a nest, and
so let every boy decide that he will not be guilty of such wanton
cruelty. This, however, does not shut off every boy and girl in the land
from studying these nests, and a more delightful subject can never come
under youthful investigation.

What is a bird’s nest? Every one knows, after a fashion, and yet few
have ever considered how much that bunch of twigs, hollow in a tree, or
hole in the ground really means. Like so much that is familiar, we
glance at it in a careless way and never stop to consider its full
significance. Except in a very few instances, a bird’s nest is never the
result of a single individual’s labor. Even if but one bird does all the
work, there has previously been a decision reached by two birds as to
where the nest shall be placed, and how much this means! At once we are
brought to consider that an interchange of thought has taken place. The
pair have discussed, literally, the merits and drawbacks of the
situation, and have had in mind not only their own safety, but that of
their offspring. The fact that they make mistakes at times proves this.
Were this not the case, or if nests were placed hap-hazard in any tree
or bush or anywhere on the ground, bird enemies would have a happy time
for a short season, and then birds, like many of the world’s huge
beasts, would become extinct. On the contrary, birds have long since
learned to be very careful, and their ingenuity in this apparently
simple matter of choosing a nest site is really astonishing. This, too,
has resulted in quickening their wits in all directions, and the bird
that is really a booby is scarcely to be found.

Birds suffer at times from their misjudgment or over-confidence, and
this, it must be added, reflects upon us. The instances are numberless
where birds have quickly learned that certain people love them, and they
lose all fear. Again, naturally very timid birds soon learn when they
are free from persecution. The writer frequently passes in the cars by a
zoological garden on the bank of a river, and has been impressed with
the abundant illustration of birds’ intelligence to be noticed there.
The crows have learned that fire-arms are not allowed to be used
anywhere near, and so they fearlessly hop about not only the enclosure
of the garden, but the many tracks of the railroad just outside, showing
no timidity even when the locomotives rush by. Stranger still, wild
ducks gather in the river almost directly under the railroad bridge, and
do not always dive out of sight as the trains pass by, and I have never
seen them take wing, even when the whistle blew the quick, short,
penetrating danger signal.

To come back to their nests: birds have other enemies than man to guard
against, and so are never in a hurry in the matter of determining where
to build. Time and again a location has been discovered to be unsuitable
after a nest has been commenced, and the structure abandoned. I have
observed this many times. Indeed, my own curiosity has led the birds to
move, they not quite approving my constant watching of what was going
on. I well remember seating myself once in a shady nook to eat my lunch,
and being almost attacked by a pair of black-and-white tree-creeping
warblers. Their actions were plainly a protest against my staying where
I was, and on looking about, I found that I had almost sat upon their
nest, which was then just completed, but contained no eggs. I visited
the spot the next day and found a single egg; but my coming was a
mistake, for the birds now believed I had sinister designs, and
abandoned their new-made home.

The method of building, of course, varies as much as the patterns of
nests. Even when the same materials are used, they are differently
treated, and a nest of sticks only may in one case be merely thrown
together, as it were, while in another they are so carefully interlaced
that the structure is a basket, and holds together if held by the rim
only. Another, the same in general appearance, would immediately fall to
pieces if similarly treated. A reason for this is discoverable in some
cases, but not in all. If we examine a great many nests, the rule will
hold good, I think, that where they are very loosely put together, the
locality is such that no natural disturbing causes, as high winds, are
likely to bring disaster. Until I studied this point the occurrence of
exceedingly frail nests was ever a matter of surprise, for it is to be
remembered that the same species, as a cat-bird or cardinal red-bird,
does not build after a uniform fashion, but adapts its work to the spot
chosen for the nest. It would be very hazardous to say that a nest was
built by this or that bird, unless the builder was seen in possession.

So difficult is it to watch a pair of birds while building, that the
method of their working is largely to be guessed at from the work
itself, but by means of a field-glass a good deal can be learned. It
would appear as if a great many twigs were brought for the foundation of
a nest, such as a cat-bird’s or song-sparrow’s, that were unsuitable. I
have occasionally seen a twig tossed aside with a flirt of the head very
suggestive of disappointment. The builders do not always carry with them
a distinct idea of what they want when hunting for material, and so
labor more than would be necessary if a little wiser. Very funny
disputes, too, often arise, and these are most frequent when wrens are
finishing their huge structures in a box or some corner of an
out-building. A feather, or a bit of thread, or a small rag will be
carried in by one bird and tossed out by the other with a deal of
scolding and “loud words” that is positively startling. But when the
framework of any ordinary open or cup-shaped nest is finally completed,
the lining is not so difficult a matter. Soft or yielding materials are
used that to a greater or less extent have a “felting property,” and by
the bird’s weight alone assume the shape desired. This is facilitated by
the bird in two ways: the builder sits down, as if the eggs were already
laid, and with its beak pushes the loose material between it and the
framework, and tucks odd bits into any too open crevices. While doing
this, it slowly moves around until it has described a complete circle.
This brings to light any defects in the outer structure, and the bird
can often be seen tugging away at some projecting end, or its mate,
outside of the nest, rearranging a twig here and there, while the other
bird—shall I say?—is giving directions.

Surprise has often been expressed that the common chipping sparrow can
so neatly curl a long horse-hair into the lining of its little nest. It
cannot be explained, perhaps, but we have at least a clue to it. One end
of the hair is snugly tucked in among stouter materials, and then,—I ask
the question only,—as the bird coils it about the sides of the nest with
its beak, does it break or dent it, or is there some chemical effect
produced by the bird’s saliva? The hairs do not appear to be merely
dry-curled, for in that case they would unroll when taken from the nest,
and such as I have tried, when just placed in position, retained the
coiled condition when removed. But old hair, curled by long exposure to
the air and moisture, is often used, and this is far more tractable.
When we come to examine woven nests, such as the Baltimore oriole and
the red-eyed vireo, as well as some other small birds, build, there is
offered a great deal more to study, for how they accomplish what they
do, with their only tools their feet and beak, is not wholly known. That
the tropical tailor-bird should run a thread through a leaf and so bring
the edges together and make a conical-shaped bag, is not so very
strange. It is little more than the piercing of the leaf and then
putting the thread through the hole. This is ingenious but not
wonderful, because not difficult; but let us consider a Baltimore oriole
and his nest. The latter is often suspended from a very slender elm or
willow twig, and the bird has a hard time to hold on while at work. One
experienced old oriole has for years built in the elm near my door, and
occasionally I have caught a glimpse of him. I will not be positive, but
believe that his first move is to find a good stout string, and this he
ties to the twig. I use the word “tie” because I have found in many
cases a capitally-tied knot, but how the bird, or birds, could
accomplish this I cannot imagine. Both feet and beak, I suppose, are
brought into play, but how? To get some insight into the matter, I once
tied a very long string to the end of a thread that the oriole had
secured at one end and left dangling. This interference caused some
commotion, but the bird was not outwitted. It caught the long string by
its loose end and wrapped it over and over various twigs, and soon had a
curious open-work bag that served its purpose admirably. The lining of
soft, fluffy stuff’s was soon added. This brought up the question as to
whether the bird ever ties short pieces together and so makes a more
secure cable that gives strength to the finished nest. In examining
nests, I have seen such knots as might have been tied by the birds, but
there was no way to prove it. That they do wrap a string several times
about a twig and then tie it, just as a boy ties his fishing-line to a
pole, is certain. With my field-glass I have followed the bird far
enough to be sure of this. When at work, the bird, from necessity, is in
a reversed position,—that is, tail up and head down. This has an obvious
advantage, in that the builder can see what is going on beneath him, and
shows, too, how near the ground the nest will come when finished; but it
sometimes happens that he gets so absorbed in his work that a person can
approach quite near, but I never knew him to become entangled in the
loose ends that hang about him.

The oriole at times offers us a wonderful example of ingenuity. It
occasionally happens that too slight a twig is selected, and when the
nest is finished, or, later, when the young are nearly grown, the
structure hangs down too low for safety or sways too violently when the
parent birds alight on it. This is a difficulty the bird has to contend
with, and he has been known to remedy it by attaching a cord to the
sustaining twigs and tying them to a higher limb of the tree, thus
securing the necessary stability.

A more familiar evidence of the intelligence of birds is when the vireos
are disturbed by the presence of a cow-bird’s egg in their nest. To get
rid of it, they often build a new floor to the nest, and so leave the
offending egg to spoil. But there is displayed here an error of judgment
that I am surprised to find. The birds that take this trouble certainly
could throw the egg out, and, I should think, preserve their own eggs,
which invariably are left to decay when a new structure is reared above
the old. I believe even three-storied vireos’ nests have been found.

There is one common swallow that is found well-nigh everywhere, which
burrows into the sand; and when we think of it, it seems strange that so
aerial a bird should build so gloomy an abode for the nesting season.
This bank swallow, as it is called, selects a suitable bluff, facing
water, and, with closed beak, turns round and round with its head to the
ground, thus boring a hole big enough to crawl into. It turns into a
gimlet for the time, and uses its beak as the point of the tool. This is
odd work for a bird that almost lives in the air; and then think, too,
of sitting in a dark cave, sometimes six feet long, until the eggs are
hatched. On the other hand, the barn swallow makes a nest where there is
plenty of light and air, and is a mason rather than a carpenter or
miner. The mud he uses is not mere earth and water, but is made more
adherent by a trace of secretion from the bird’s mouth; at least, my
experiments lead me to think so. To build such a nest would be slow work
did not the two birds work together and carry their little loads of
mortar with great rapidity. They waste no time, and use only good
materials, for I have noticed them, when building, go to a quite distant
spot for the mud when a pool was directly outside of the barn in which
they were building. To all appearance the nest is of sun-dried mud, but
the material has certainly undergone a kind of puddling first that makes
it more adherent, bit to bit, and the whole to the rafter or side of the
building. Again, these swallows have the knack of carrying a little
water on the feathers of their breasts, I think, and give the structure
a shower-like wetting from time to time. At last the structure “sets”
and is practically permanent.

There are birds that build no nests, like the kill-deer plover and the
woodcock, and yet they exercise a faculty of equal value intellectually;
for to be able to locate a spot that will be in the least degree exposed
to danger is a power of no mean grade. The kill-deer will place its eggs
on sloping ground, but somehow the heaviest dashes of rain do not wash
out that particular spot. There are sand-pipers that lay their eggs on a
bit of dead grass, just out of reach of the highest tides. As we look at
such _nests_, we conclude that the birds trust a great deal to good
luck; but, as a matter of fact, the destruction of eggs when in no
nests, or next to none, is very small. Why, on the other hand,
woodpeckers should go to such an infinity of trouble to whittle a nest
in the firm tissue of a living tree, when a natural hollow would serve
as well, is a problem past finding out. I have even seen a woodpecker
make a new nest in a tree which already contained one in every respect
as good.

Going back to the fields and thickets, it will be seen that birds, as a
rule, desire that their nests should be inconspicuous, and their efforts
are always largely in this direction in the construction. The foliage of
the tree or bush is considered, and when not directly concealed by this,
the nest is made to look marvellously like a natural production of the
vegetable world, as the beautiful nest of our wood pee-wee or the
humming-bird shows. These nests are then not merely the homes of young
birds, but are places of defence against a host of enemies. The parent
birds have no simple task set before them that can be gone through with
mechanically year after year. Every season new problems arise, if their
favorite haunts suffer change, and every year the birds prove equal to
their solution.




                 CHAPTER                          FIFTH

                          _CORN-STALK FIDDLES_


It is a merit of our climate that at no time of the year are we, as
children, shut out from healthy out-door pleasure. There are shady nooks
along our creeks and rivers and delightful old mill-ponds wherein we may
bathe in midsummer, and there are acres of glassy ice over which to
skate in midwinter. Spring and autumn are too full of fun to
particularize, the average day being available for scores of methods
whereby to make life a treasure beyond compare, spending it, to the mind
of a boy, in that most rational way, having sport. I do not know why we
always played marbles at one time of the year and flew our kites at
another: this is for the folk-lore clubs to fathom. Suffice it, that
there has been for centuries a time for every out-door amusement as
fixed as the phases of the moon. So much for the sport common to all
boys. And now a word concerning an old-time musical instrument that may
be now quite out of date,—the corn-stalk fiddle.

This very primitive musical instrument is associated with the dreamy
Indian-summer days of late November. Then it discoursed delicious music,
but at other times it would have been “out of tune and harsh.” Did the
Indians give the secret to the children of our colonial forefathers? It
would be a pleasing thought whenever the toy comes to mind, as the mere
suggestion is a pleasant fancy.

The husking over, the corn-stalks carted and stored in a huge rick by
the barn-yard, the apples gathered, the winter wood cut, and then the
long quiet, with almost nothing to do. Such was the routine when I was a
boy, and if the uncertain, dreamy days would only come, there was sure
to be a short round of pleasure wherein the fiddle figured more
prominently than all else.

It was no small part of the fun to see Billy make a fiddle; it was such
a curious combination of mummery and skill. Having whetted his keen,
old-fashioned Barlow knife on the toe of his boot, he would flourish it
above his head with a whoop as though he was looking for an enemy
instead of a corn-stalk. Finding one that was glossy and long enough
between the joints, he would press it gently between his lips, trying
the several sections, and then selecting the longest and most glossy
one. So much of the proceeding was for our benefit, as the cunning old
fellow well knew that it added to his importance in our eyes.

What followed was skill. Having cut off the stalk above and below the
ring-like joints, he had now a convenient piece about eight or ten
inches in length. This he warmed by rubbing it violently with the palm
of his hand, and then placing the point of the knife as near the joint
as practicable, he drew it quickly down to the next joint or lower end.
It must be a straight incision, and Billy seldom failed to make it so. A
parallel one was then made, not more than one-sixteenth of an inch
distant. A space of twice this width was left, and two or three more
strings were made in the same manner. These were freed of the pith
adhering to their under sides, and held up by little wooden “bridges,”
one at each end. The bow was similarly fashioned, but was made of a more
slender section of corn-stalk and had but two strings.

It was indeed surprising how available this crude production proved as a
musical instrument. Youth and the environment counted for a great deal,
of course, and my Quaker surroundings forbidding music, it was a sweeter
joy because a stolen one.

I can picture days of forty years ago as distinctly as though a matter
of the present. My cousin and myself, with Black Billy, would often
steal away and carry with us one of the smaller barn doors. This we
would place in a sunny nook on the south side of the stalk-rick, and
while the fiddle was being made, would part with our jackets that we
might dance the better. Billy was soon ready, and with what a joyful
grin, rolling of his huge black eyes, and vigorous contortion of the
whole body would our faithful friend draw from the corn-stalk every note
of many a quaint old tune! And how we danced! For many a year after the
old door showed the nail-marks of our heavily-heeled shoes where we had
brought them down with a vigor that often roused the energy of old
Billy, until he, too, would stand up and execute a marvellous _pas
seul_. Then, tired out, we would rest in niches in the stalk-rick, and
Billy would play such familiar airs as had penetrated even into the
quiet of Quakerdom. It was no mere imitation of the music, but the thing
itself; and it would be an hour or more before the fiddle’s strings had
lost their tension, the silicious covering had worn away, and the sweet
sounds ceased.

Almost the last of my November afternoons passed in this way had a
somewhat dramatic ending. The fiddle was one of more than ordinary
excellence. In the height of our fun I spied the brim of my
grandfather’s hat extending an inch or two around the corner. I gave no
sign, but danced more vigorously than ever, and as the music and dancing
became more fast and furious the crown of his stiff hat appeared, and
then my grandfather’s face. His countenance was a study. Whether to give
the alarm and run or to remain was the decision of an instant. I gave no
sign, but kept one eye on him. “Faster!” I cried to Billy, and, to my
complete astonishment, the hat moved rapidly up and down. Grandfather
was keeping time! “Faster!” I cried again, and the music was now a
shrieking medley, and the broad-brimmed hat vibrated wonderfully fast.
It was too much. I gave a wild yell and darted off. Circling the barn
and stalk-rick, I entered the front yard with a flushed but innocent
face, and met grandpa. He, too, had an innocent, far-away look, but his
hat was resting on the back of his head and his checks were streaming
with perspiration, and, best of all, he did not seem to know it.

“Grandpa,” I asked at the supper-table that evening, “does thee know why
it is that savage races are so given to dancing?”

"Charles," he replied, gravely, and nothing more was said.




                 CHAPTER                          SIXTH

                         _THE OLD KITCHEN DOOR_


The white porch, with its high roof and two severely plain pillars to
support it; the heavy door, with its ponderous knocker; the straggling
sweetbrier at one side; the forlorn yellow rose between the parlor
windows; the grass that was too cold to welcome a dandelion; the low box
hedge, and one huge box bush that never sheltered a bird’s nest; all
these were in front to solemnly greet that terror of my early
days,—company.

To me these front-door features all meant, and still mean, restraint;
but how different the world that lingered about the old farm-house
kitchen door! There was no cold formality there, but freedom,—the
healthy freedom of old clothes, an old hat; ay, even the luxury of an
open-throated shirt was allowed.

After a tramp over the meadows, after a day’s fishing, after the round
of the rabbit-traps in winter, what joy to enter the kitchen door and
breathe in the delectable odor of hot gingerbread! There were appetites
in those days.

I do not understand the mechanism of a modern kitchen: it looks to me
like a small machine-shop; but the old farm kitchen was a simple affair,
and the intricacies and mystery lay wholly in the dishes evolved. It is
said of my grandmother that a whiff of her sponge-cake brought the
humming-birds about. I do know there was a crackly crust upon it which
it is useless now to try to imitate.

But the door itself—we have none such now. It was a double door in two
ways. It was made of narrow strips of oak, oblique on one side and
straight on the other, and so studded with nails that the whole affair
was almost half metal. It was cut in two, having an upper and a lower
section. The huge wooden latch was hard and smooth as ivory. At night
the door was fastened by a hickory bar, which, when I grew strong enough
to lift it, was my favorite hobby-horse.

The heavy oak sill was worn in the middle until its upper surface was
beautifully curved, and to keep the rain out, when the wind was south, a
canvas sand-bag was rolled against it. A stormy-day amusement was to
pull this away on the sly, and sail tiny paper boats in the puddle that
soon formed on the kitchen floor. There was mischief in those days.

Kitchens and food are of course inseparably connected, and what
hunting-ground for boys equal to the closets where the cakes were kept?
I do not know that the matter was ever openly discussed, but as I look
back it seems as if it was an understood thing that, when our cunning
succeeded in outwitting auntie, we could help ourselves to jumbles. Once
I became a hero in this line of discovery, and we had a picnic behind
the lilacs; but, alas! only too soon we were pleading for essence of
peppermint. Over-eating is possible, even in our teens.

Recent raids in modern kitchen precincts are never successful. Of late I
always put my hand in the wrong crock, and find pickles where I sought
preserves. I never fail, now, to take a slice of a reserved cake, or to
quarter the pie intended for the next meal. Age brings no experience in
such matters. It is a case where we advance backward.

Of the almost endless phases of life centring about the kitchen door
there is one which stands out so prominently that it is hard to realize
the older actor is now dead and that of the young on-lookers few are
left. Soon after the dinner-horn was sounded the farm hands gathered at
the pump, which stood just outside the door, and then in solemn
procession filed into the kitchen for the noonday meal. All this was
prosy enough, but the hour’s nooning after it,—then there was fun
indeed.

Scipio—“Zip,” for short—was not ill-natured, but then who loves too much
teasing? An old chestnut burr in the grass where he was apt to lie had
made him suspicious of me, and I had to be extra cautious. Once I nearly
overstepped the mark. Zip had his own place for a quiet nap, and, when
stretched upon the grass under the big linden, preferred not to be
disturbed. Now it occurred to me to be very funny. I whittled a cork to
the shape of a spider, added monstrous legs, and with glue fastened a
dense coating of chicken-down over all.

It was a fearful spider.

I suspended the sham insect from a limb of the tree so that it would
hang directly over Zip’s face as he lay on the ground, and by a black
thread that could not be seen I could draw it up or let it down at
pleasure. It was well out of sight when Zip fell asleep, and then I
slowly lowered the monster until it tickled his nose. It was promptly
brushed aside. This was repeated several times, and then the old man
awoke. The huge spider was just touching his nose, and one glance was
enough. With a bound and a yell he was up and off, in his headlong
flight overturning the thoughtless cause of his terror. I was the more
injured of the two, but never dared in after-years to ask Zip if he was
afraid of spiders.

And all these years the front door never changed. It may have been
opened daily for aught I know, but I can remember nothing of its
history.

Stay! As befitting such an occurrence, it was open once, as I remember,
when there was a wedding at the house; but of that wedding I recall only
the preparations in the kitchen for the feast that followed; and, alas!
it has been opened again and again for funerals.

Why, indeed, should the front door be remembered? It added no sunshine
to the child’s short summer; but around the corner, whether dreary
winter’s storm or the fiercest heat of August fell upon it, the kitchen
door was the entrance to a veritable elysium.




                CHAPTER                          SEVENTH

                             _UP THE CREEK_


There is greater merit in the little word “up” than in “down.” If, when
in a place new to me, I am asked to go “up the creek,” my heart leaps,
but there is less enthusiasm when it is suggested to go down the stream.
One seems to mean going into the country, the other into the town. All
this is illogical, of course, but what of that? The facts of a case like
this have not the value of my idle fancies. After all, there is a
peculiar merit in going up-stream. It is something to be going deeper
and deeper into the heart of the country. It is akin to getting at the
foundations of things.

In the case of small inland streams, generally, the mouth is a
commonplace affair. The features that charm shrink from the fateful
spot, and we are put in a condition of anticipation at the start which,
happily, proves one of abundant realization at the finish.

A certain midsummer Saturday was not an ideal one for an outing, but
with most excellent company I ventured up the creek. It was my friend’s
suggestion, so I was free from responsibility. Having promised nothing,
I could in no wise be justly held accountable. Vain thought! Directly I
suffered in their estimation because, at mere beck and nod, polliwogs
were not forthcoming and fishes refused to swim into my hand. What
strange things we fancy of our neighbors! Because I love the wild life
about me, one young friend thought me a magician who could command the
whole creek’s fauna by mere word of mouth. It proved an empty day in one
respect, animal life scarcely showing itself. To offer explanations was
of no avail, and one of the little company recast her opinions. Perhaps
she even entertains some doubt as to my having ever seen a bird or fish
or the coveted polliwog.

It is one thing to be able to give the name and touch upon the habits of
some captured creature, and quite another to command its immediate
presence when we enter its haunts. This always should, and probably
never will, be remembered.

But what of the creek, the one-time Big-Bird Creek of the Delaware
Indians? With ill-timed strokes we pulled our languid oars, and passed
many a tree, jutting meadow, or abandoned wharf worthy of more than a
moment’s contemplation. But, lured by the treasure still beyond our
reach, we went on and on, until the trickling waters of a hillside
spring proved too much for us, and, turning our prow landward, we
stopped to rest.

Among old trees that afforded grateful shade, a spring that bubbled from
an aged chestnut’s wrinkled roots, a bit of babbling brook that too soon
reached the creek and was lost, and, beyond all, wide-spreading meadows,
boundless from our point of view—what more need one ask? To our credit,
be it said, we were satisfied, except, perhaps, that here, as all along
our course, polliwogs were perverse. Birds, however, considerately came
and went, and even the shy cuckoo deigned to reply when we imitated his
dolorous clucking. A cardinal grosbeak, too, drew near and whistled a
welcome, and once eyed us with much interest as we sat lunching on the
grass. What did he think of us? Eating, with him, is so different a
matter, and perhaps he could give us a few useful hints. The trite
remark, “Fingers came before forks,” has a significance in the woods, if
not in the town. While eating we listened, and I heard the voices of
nine different birds. Some merely chirped in passing, it is true, but
the marsh-wrens in the cat-tail thicket just across the creek were not
silent for a moment. Here in the valley of the Delaware, as I recently
found them on the shores of Chesapeake Bay, the wrens are quite
nocturnal, and I would have been glad to have heard them sing in the
moonlight again; for our enthusiasm would have been strengthened by a
few such glimpses of the night side of Nature.

No bird is so welcome to a mid-day camp as the white-eyed vireo, and we
were fortunate in having one with us while we tarried at the spring. Not
even ninety degrees in the shade has any effect upon him, and this
unflagging energy reacts upon the listener. We could at least be so far
alive as to give him our attention. Mid-day heat, however, does affect
many a song-bird, and now that nesting is well-nigh over, the open woods
are deserted for hidden cool retreats, where the songster takes its
ease, as we, far from town, are taking ours. There is much in common
between birds and men.

How, as we lingered over our glasses, counting the lemon-seeds embedded
in sugar, we would have enjoyed a wood-thrush’s splendid song or a
rose-breasted grosbeak’s matchless melody! but the _to-whee_ of the
pipilo scratching among dead leaves, the plaint of an inquisitive
cat-bird threading the briers, the whir of a humming-bird vainly seeking
flowers,—these did not pass for nothing; and yet there was comparative
silence that suggested a sleeping rather than a wakeful, active world.

Here let me give him who loves an outing a useful hint: be not so
anxious for what may be that you overlook that which is spread before
you. More than once to-day our discussion of the “silence” of a
midsummer noontide drowned the voices of singing-birds near by.

How often it has been intimated to us that "two’s company and three’s a
crowd"! but to really see and hear what transpires in the haunts of wild
life, _one_ is company and _two’s_ a crowd. We cannot heed Nature and
fellow-man at the same moment; and as to the comparative value of their
communications, each must judge for himself.

Certainly the human voice is a sound which animals are slow to
appreciate. How often have I stood in silence before birds and small
animals and they have shown no fear! A movement of my arms would put
them on guard, perhaps; but a word spoken, and away they sped. Not a
bird, I have noticed, is startled by the bellow of a bull or the neigh
of a horse, and yet my own voice filled them with fear. Even snakes that
knew me well and paid no attention to my movements were startled at
words loudly spoken. It is a bit humiliating to think that in the
estimation of many a wild animal our bark is worse than our bite.

A midsummer noontide has surely some merit, and when I failed to find
fish, frog, or salamander for my young friend, it became necessary to
point to some feature of the spot that made it worth a visit. To my
discomfiture, I could find nothing. Trees have been talked of overmuch,
and there were no wild flowers. The August bloom gave, as yet, only a
hint of what was coming. I had hit upon a most unlucky interim during
which no man should go upon a picnic. In despair and empty-handed, we
took to our boat and started up the creek. It was a fortunate move, for
straightway the waters offered that which I had vainly sought for on
shore. Here were flowers in abundance. The pickerel-weed was in bloom,
the dull-yellow blossoms of the spatterdock dotted the muddy shores,
bind-weed here and there offered a single flower as we passed by, and
never was golden-dodder more luxuriant. Still, it is always a little
disappointing when Flora has the world to herself, and while we were
afloat it was left to a few crows and a single heron to prove that she
had not quite undisputed sway.

Up the creek with many a turn and twist, and now on a grassy knoll we
land again, where a wonderful spring pours a great volume of sparkling
water into the creek. Here at last we have an object lesson that should
bear fruit when we recall the day. Not a cupful of this clear cold water
could we catch but contained a few grains of sand, and for so many
centuries has this carrying of sand grains been in progress that now a
great ridge has choked the channel where once rode ships at anchor. An
obscure back-country creek now, but less than two centuries ago the
scene of busy industry. Perhaps no one is now living who saw the last
sail that whitened the landscape. Pages of old ledgers, a bit of diary,
and old deeds tell us something of the place; but the grassy knoll
itself gives no hint of the fact that upon it once stood a warehouse.
Yet a busy place it was in early colonial times, and now utterly
neglected.

It is difficult to realize how very unsubstantial is much of man’s work.
As we sat upon the grassy slope, watching the outgoing tide as it
rippled and broke in a long line of sparkling bubbles, I rebuilt, for
the moment, the projecting wharf, of which but a single log remains, and
had the quaint shallops of pre-Revolutionary time riding at anchor.
There were heard, in fact, the cry of a heron and the wild scream of a
hawk; but these, in fancy, were the hum of human voices and the tramp of
busy feet.

[Illustration: _The Old Drawbridge, Crosswick’s Creek_]

The scattered stones that just peeped above the grass were not chance
bowlders rolled from the hill near by, but the door-step and foundation
of the one-time warehouse. The days of buying, selling, and getting gain
came back, in fancy, and I was more the sturdy colonist than the
effeminate descendant. But has the present no merit? We had the summer
breeze that came freighted with the odors gathered from the forest and
the stream, and there were thrushes rejoicing in our hearing that the
hill-sides were again as Nature made them. It meant much to us to tarry
in the shade of venerable trees spared by the merchants that once
collected here, whose names are now utterly forgotten. Stay! there are
two reminders of ancient glory. A beech that overhangs the brook has its
bark well scarred, and, now beyond decipherment, there are initials of
many prominent naturalists of Philadelphia. A few rods up-stream is
another beech that has remained unchanged. On it can be seen the
initials T. A. C., 1819; those of the celebrated paleontologist, Conrad,
born near here in 1803.

The shadows lengthen; the cooler hours of eventide draw on; the languid
thrushes are again abroad; music fills the air. We are homeward bound
and hurrying down-stream. Our minds are not so receptive as when we
started. How shrunken to a few rods is every mile! Trees, flowers, and
birds are scarcely heeded; but the good gathered as we went up the creek
we bring away, and, once again in the dusty village street, we realize
that we have but to turn our back upon the town to find the world a
picture.




                CHAPTER                          EIGHTH

                           _A WINTER-NIGHT’S
                                OUTING_


Not long since I was asked—and not for the first time—if I could date
the beginning of my taste for natural history pursuits or give any
incident that appeared to mark a turning-point in my career.

It did not seem possible to do this, on first consideration; but a
recent living over of days gone by recalled an incident which happened
before I was eleven years old, and, as it was almost my first regular
outing that smacked of adventure, it is probable that it impressed me
more forcibly than any earlier or, indeed, later events.

Heavy and long-continued rains had resulted in a freshet, and then three
bitter cold days had converted a wide reach of meadows into a frozen
lake. Happier conditions could not have occurred in the small boy’s
estimation, and, with boundless anticipation, we went skating.

After smooth ice, the foremost requirement is abundant room, and this we
had. There was more than a square mile for each of us. The day had been
perfect and the approaching night was such as Lowell so aptly describes,
“all silence and all glisten.”

As the sun was setting we started a roaring fire in a sheltered nook,
and securely fastening our skates without getting at all chilled,
started off. Then the fun commenced. We often wandered more than a mile
away, and it was not until the fire was reduced to a bed of glowing
coals that we returned to our starting-point.

Here a great surprise awaited us. The heat had drawn from the wooded
hill-side near by many a meadow-mouse that, moved by the warmth or by
curiosity, ventured as near as it dared. These mice were equally
surprised at seeing us, and scampered off, but, it seemed to me, with
some show of reluctance, as if a chance to warm themselves so thoroughly
should not be missed.

We freshened the fire a little and fell back a few paces, but stood near
enough to see if the mice would return. This they did in a few minutes,
and, to our unbounded surprise and amusement, more than one sat up on
its haunches like a squirrel. They seemed to be so many diminutive human
beings about a camp-fire.

It was a sight to give rise to a pretty fairy tale, and possibly our
Indians built up theirs on just such incidents. These mice were, to all
appearances, there to enjoy the warmth. There was little running to and
fro, no squeaking, not a trace of unusual excitement, and, although it
was so cold, we agreed to wait as long as the mice saw fit to stay.

This resolution, however, could not hold. We were getting chilled, and
so had to draw near. As we did this, there was a faint squeaking which
all noticed, and we concluded that sentinels had been placed to warn the
congregated mice of our approach.

The spirit of adventure was now upon us, and our skates were but the
means to other ends than mere sport. What, we thought, of the gloomy
nooks and corners where thickets stood well above the ice? We had
shunned these heretofore, but without open admission that we had any
fear concerning them. Then, too, the gloomy gullies in the hill-side
came to mind. Should we skate into such darkness and startle the wild
life there?

The suggestion was made, and not one dared say he was afraid.

We thought of the fun in chasing a coon or skunk over the ice, and
bravely we ventured, feeling our way where we knew the ice was thin and
rough.

At a bend in the little brook, where a large cedar made the spot more
dark and forbidding, we paused a moment, not knowing just how to
proceed.

The next minute we had no time for thought. A loud scream held us almost
spellbound, and then, with one dash, we sought the open meadows.

Once there, we breathed a little freer. We could see the fast-fading
light of the fire, and at last could flee in a known direction if
pursued. Should we hurry home? We debated this for some time, but were
more fearful of being laughed at than of facing any real danger, and
therefore concluded, with proper caution, to return.

Keeping close together, we entered the ravine again, stopped near the
entrance and kindled a fire, and then, by its light, proceeded farther.
It was a familiar spot, but not without strange features as we now saw
it.

Again we were startled by the same wild cry, but for a moment only. A
barn owl, I think it was, sailed by, glaring at us, as we imagined, and
sought the open meadows.

We turned and followed, though why, it would be hard to say. The owl
flew slowly and we skated furiously, trying to keep it directly
overhead. Now we were brave even to foolhardiness, and sped away over
the ice, indifferent to the direction taken. To this day I have credited
that owl with a keen sense of humor.

On we went, over the meadows to where the swift but shallow creek flowed
by, and then, when too late, we knew where we were. The ice bent beneath
us, then cracked, and in an instant we were through it, our feet well in
the mud and the water about our necks. Just how we got out I never knew,
but we did, and the one dry match among us was a veritable treasure. It
did not go out at the critical moment, but started ablaze the few twigs
we hastily gathered, and so saved us from freezing. As we dried our
clothes and warmed our benumbed bodies, I, for one, vowed never again to
chase an owl on skates, but to go at it more soberly. From that eventful
night the country has been attractive by reason of its wild life. It was
there I became—if indeed I ever have become—a naturalist.




                 CHAPTER                          NINTH

                          _WILD LIFE IN WATER_


“The antelope has less reason to fear the lion than has the minnow to
dread the pike. We think of timid antelopes and roaring lions, but the
former has good use of its limbs, and so a fighting chance for its life;
but the minnows have little advantage in the struggle for existence, and
none at all when the predatory fishes are in pursuit of them.”

This was written in a note-book more than thirty years ago, and I let it
stand as evidence of how easy it is to be in error in matters of natural
history.

When I went to school there was but one teacher of the five that knew
anything about such matters, and he had the old-time views. Then a fish
was a mere machine so far as intelligence was concerned. We were told of
the cunning of foxes and the instinct of ants and bees, but never a word
of fishes.

The truth is, I might very properly speak of wild “wit” in the water
instead of “life,” for there can be not the shadow of a doubt but that
many of our fishes are really cunning. We need but watch them carefully
to be readily convinced of this. How else could they escape danger?

The pretty peacock minnows throng the grassy beach at high tide, playing
with their fellows in water just deep enough to cover them, and are,
when here, very tame and careless. They even get stranded upon the airy
side of floating leaves, and enjoy the excitement. They realize, it
would seem, that where they are no pike can rush down upon them, no
snake work its way unseen among them, no turtle crawl into their
playground; but as the tide goes out and these minnows are forced nearer
to the river’s channel, they lose their carelessness and are suspicious
of all about them.

To call this instinctive fear and result of heredity sounds well; but
the naturalist is brought nearer to the wild life about him when he
credits them simply with common sense. The charm of watching such “small
deer” vanishes if we lean too much on the learned and scientific
solutions of the comparative psychologist, and possibly, too, we wander
further from the truth. All I positively know is, that when danger
really exists the minnows are aware of it; when it is absent they throw
off the burden of this care, and life for a few hours is a matter of
pure enjoyment.

Brief mention should be made of the protective character of the coloring
of certain fishes. If such are fortunate enough to be protectively
colored, there is little to be said; but are they conscious of this?
Does a fish that is green or mottled green and gray keep closely to the
weeds, knowing that it is safer there than when in open water or where
the bottom is covered with white sand and pebbles? This may be a rather
startling question, but there is warrant for the asking. Float half a
day over the shallows of any broad pond or stream, study with care and
without preconception the fishes where they live, and you will ask
yourself not only this question, but many a stranger one. If fish are
fools, how is it that the angler has so generally to tax his ingenuity
to outwit them? How closely Nature must be copied to deceive a trout!

Having said so much of small fishes, what now of the larger ones that
prey upon them? A pike, for instance? Probably many more people have
studied how to catch a pike than have considered it scientifically. It
is tiresome, perhaps, but if a student of natural history really desires
to know what a fish actually is, he must watch it for hours, being
himself unseen.

At one time there were several large pike in my lotus pond. Under the
huge floating leaves of this splendid plant they took refuge, and it was
difficult to catch even a glimpse of them. At the same time the schools
of minnows seemed to enjoy the sunlight and sported in the open water.
More than once, however, I saw a pike rush out from its cover, and
finally learned that it systematically lay in wait for the minnows; and
I believe I am justified in adding that the minnows knew that danger
lurked under the lotus leaves.

The situation was not so hap-hazard a one as might appear at first
glance, and hours of patient watching convinced me that there was a
decided exercising of ingenuity on the part of both the pike and the
minnows; the former ever on the lookout for a victim, the latter
watchful of an ever-present danger. Day long it was a tragedy where
brute force counted for little and cunning for a great deal.

Another very common fish in my pond was likewise very suggestive in
connection with the subject of animal intelligence. I refer to the
common “sunny,” or “pumpkin-seed.” A shallow sand-nest had been scooped
near shore and the precious eggs deposited. A school of silvery-finned
minnows had discovered them, and the parent fish was severely taxed in
her efforts to protect them.

So long as this school of minnows remained together, the sunfish, by
fierce rushes, kept them back; but soon the former—was it accident or
design?—divided their forces, and as the parent fish darted at one
assaulting party, the other behind it made a successful raid upon the
nest. This continued for some time, and the sunfish was getting quite
weary, when, as if a sudden thought struck it, its tactics changed, and
it swam round and round in a circle and sent a shower of sand out into
the space beyond the nest. This effectually dazed the minnows.

Little incidents like this are forever occurring and effectually set
aside the once prevalent idea that fish are mere living machines. Look a
pike in the eye and you will detect something very different from mere
instinctive timidity.

But fish are not the only creatures that live in the water; there are
one snake and several species of turtles, and frogs, mollusks, and
insects innumerable. These are too apt to be associated with the land,
and, except the two latter forms, are usually thought of as taking to
the water as a place of refuge, but really living in the open air. This
is a great mistake. There is a lively world beneath the surface of the
water, and the tragedy of life is played to the very end, with here and
there a pretty comedy that wards off the blues when we look too long and
see nothing but the destruction of one creature that another may live.

Here is an example of cunning or wit in a water-snake. A friend of mine
was recently sitting on the bank of a little brook, when his attention
was called to a commotion almost at his feet. Looking down, he saw a
snake holding its head above the water, and in its mouth struggled a
small sunfish. Now, what was the snake’s purpose? It knew very well that
the fish would drown in the air, and not until it was dead could it be
swallowed with that deliberation a snake loves. The creature was cunning
enough to kill by easy means prey that would otherwise be difficult to
overcome, for while crosswise in the snake’s mouth it could not be
swallowed, and if put down for an instant the chances of its recapture
would be slight.

To suppose that a turtle, as you watch it crawling over the mud, has any
sense of humor in its horny head seems absurd; yet naturalists have
recorded their being seen at play, and certainly they can readily be
tamed to a remarkable degree. Their intelligence, however, shows
prominently only in the degree of cunning exhibited when they are in
search of food. The huge snapper “lies in wait,” and truly this is a
most suggestive and comprehensive phrase. I believe, too, that this
fierce turtle buries surplus food, and so gives further evidence of
intellectual activity.

To realize what wild life in the water really is it must be observed
where Nature has placed it. It is perhaps not so much set forth by
exceptional incidents that the student happens to witness as by that
general appearance of common sense which is so unmistakably stamped upon
even the most commonplace movements. Writers upon animal intelligence do
not need to be constantly on the lookout for special exhibitions of
cunning in order to substantiate the claims they make in favor of life’s
lower forms. It is plainly enough to be seen if we will but patiently
watch whensoever these creatures come and wheresoever they go and the
manner of their going and coming.

Do not be so intent upon watching for the marvellous that ordinary
incidents are not seen. In studying wild life everywhere, and perhaps
more particularly in the water, to be rightly informed we must see the
average individual amid commonplace surroundings. Doing this, we are not
misinformed nor led to form too high an opinion. It is as in the study
of humanity. We must not familiarize ourselves with the mountebank, but
with man.




                 CHAPTER                          TENTH

                           _AN OLD-FASHIONED
                                GARDEN_


The world at large is a most intricate machine, and parts viewed
separately give no hint of their importance to what appear quite
independent objects. Man may dissociate without destroying, but, when he
does so, his constant attention must then take the place of the acts
that Nature designed other conditions of life should perform. The
isolated plant, for instance, is destroyed by insects unless we protect
it by a glass covering or a poison-bath: Nature gave it to the birds to
protect the plant, and in so doing find food for themselves. This law of
interdependence is made very plain in the case of a modern garden or the
trim lawns of a large city, and in less degree applies to towns and
villages. The caterpillar nuisance that requires the collaring of
shade-trees with cotton-wool to protect their foliage illustrates this;
and what an example is a modern garden filled to overflowing with exotic
plants! An all-important feature is wanting,—birds; for, except English
sparrows, we have none, and these are worse than useless.

It was not always so, and the cause of the deplorable change is not hard
to find. Whenever we chance, in our wanderings, to come upon some
long-neglected corner of colonial times, there we will find the bloom
and birds together. I have said “neglected;” not quite that, for there
was bloom, and the birds are excellent gardeners.

Let me particularize. My garden is a commonplace affair, with the single
innovation of a tub sunk in the ground to accommodate a lotus,—so
commonplace, indeed, that no passer-by would notice it; and yet during a
single summer afternoon I have seen within its boundaries fifteen
species of birds. At that hottest hour of the midsummer day, two P.M.,
while looking at the huge pink blossoms of the classic lotus, my
attention was called to a quick movement on the ground, as if a rat ran
by. It proved to be an oven-bird, that curious combination of thrush and
sand-piper, and yet neither, but a true warbler. It peered into every
nook and corner of the shrubbery, poised on the edge of the sunken
lotus-tub, caught a wriggling worm that came to the surface of the
water, then teetered along the fence and was gone. Soon it returned, and
came and went until dark, as much at home as ever in the deep recesses
of unfrequented woods. As the sun went down, the bird sang once with all
the spring-tide ardor, and brought swiftly back to me many a long
summer’s day ramble in the country. It is something to be miles away
from home while sitting on your own door-step.

Twice a song-sparrow came, bathed in the lotus-tub, and, when not
foraging in the weedy corners, sang its old-fashioned song, now so
seldom heard within town limits. The bird gave me two valuable hints as
to garden management. Water is a necessity to birds as well as to any
other form of life, and shelter is something more than a mere
attraction. Was it not because the birds happened to be provided with
them to-day that I had, as I have had the summer long, more birds than
my neighbors?

How seldom do we see the coral honeysuckle, and how generally the
trumpet-creeper has given place to exotic vines of far more striking
bloom, but, as will appear, of less utility! If the old-time vines that
I have mentioned bore less showy flowers, they had at least the merit of
attracting humming-birds, that so grandly rounded out our complement of
summer birds. These feathered fairies are not difficult to see, even
though so small, and, if so inclined, we can always study them to great
advantage. They become quite tame, and in the old-fashioned gardens were
always a prominent feature by reason of their numbers. They are not
forever on the wing, and when preening their feathers let the sunshine
fall upon them, and we have emeralds and rubies that cost nothing, but
are none the less valuable because of this. In changing the botanical
features of our yards we have had but one thought, gorgeous flowers; but
was it wise to give no heed to the loss of birds as the result? I fancy
there are many who would turn with delight from formal clusters of
unfamiliar shrubs, however showy, to a gooseberry hedge or a lilac
thicket with song-sparrows and a cat-bird hidden in its shade. We have
been unwise in this too radical change. We have abolished bird-music in
our eagerness for color, gaining a little, but losing more. We have paid
too clear, not for a whistle, but for its loss. But it is not too late.
Carry a little of the home forest to our yards, and birds will follow
it. And let me here wander to an allied matter, that of the
recently-established Arbor Day. What I have just said recalls it.

To merely transplant a tree, move it from one spot to another, where
perhaps it is less likely to remain for any length of time than where it
previously stood, is, it seems to me, the very acme of folly. The
chances are many that the soil is less suitable, and so growth will be
retarded, and the world is therefore not one whit the better off. There
is far too much tree-planting of this kind on Arbor Day. In many an
instance a plot of ground has been replanted year after year. I fancy we
will have to reach more nearly to the stage of tree appreciation before
Arbor Day will be a pre-eminent success. Can we not, indeed, accommodate
ourselves a little more to the trees growing where Nature planted them?
I know a village well, where the houses are placed to accommodate the
trees that stood there when the spot was a wilderness. The main street
is a little crooked, but what a noble street it is! I recall, as I write
these lines, many a Friends’ meeting-house, and one country school,
where splendid oaks are standing near by, and to those who gather daily
or weekly here, whether children or grown people, the trees are no less
clear than the buildings beside them. The wanderer who revisits the
scenes of his childhood looks first at the trees and then at the houses.
Tree-worship, we are told, was once very prevalent, and it is not to be
regretted that in a modified form it still remains with us.

As a practical matter, let me here throw out the suggestion that he will
be doing most excellent work who saves a tree each year. This is a
celebration that needs no special day set forth by legislative
enactment. How often I have heard farmers remark, "It was a mistake to
cut those trees down"! Of course it was. In nine cases out of ten the
value of the trees felled proves less than was expected, and quickly
follows the realization of the fact that when standing their full value
was not appreciated. Think of cutting down trees that stand singly or in
little groups in the middle of fields because it is a trouble to plant
around them, or for the reason that they shade the crops too much! What
of the crop of comfort such trees yield to both man and beast when these
fields are pastures? “But there is no money in shade-trees.” I cannot
repress my disgust when I hear this, and I have heard it often. Is there
genuine manhood in those who feel this way towards the one great
ornament of our landscape?

It is not—more’s the pity—within the power of every one to plant a tree,
but those who cannot need not stand idly by on Arbor Day. Here is an
instance where half a loaf is better than no bread. Many a one can plant
a shrub. How often there is an unsightly corner, even in the smallest
enclosure, where a tall tree would be a serious obstruction, whereon can
be grown a thrifty bush, one that will be a constant source of pleasure
because of its symmetry and bright foliage, and for a time doubly
attractive because of its splendid blossoming! We know too little of the
many beautiful flowering shrubs that are scattered through every
woodland, which are greatly improved by a little care in cultivation,
and which will bear transplanting. We overlook them often, when seen
growing in the forest, because they are small, irregular, and often
sparse of bloom. But remember, in the woods there is a fierce struggle
for existence, and when this is overcome the full beauty of the shrub’s
stature becomes an accomplished fact.

Here is a short list of common shrubs, every one of which is hardy,
beautiful in itself, and can be had without other cost or labor than a
walk in the country, for I do not suppose any land-owner would refuse a
“weed,” as they generally call these humble plants. The spicewood
(_Lindera benzoin_), which bears bright golden flowers before the leaves
appear; the shad-bush (_Amelanchier canadensis_), with a wealth of snowy
blossoms, which are increased in number and size by a little attention,
as judicious trimming; and the “bush” of the wild-wood can be made to
grow to a beautiful miniature tree. The well-known pinxter flower
(_Azalea nudicaule_) is improved by cultivation, and can be made to grow
“stocky” and thick-set, instead of scragged, as we usually find it. Its
bright pink blossoms make a grand showing in May. There is a little wild
plum (_Prunus spinosa_) which only asks to be given a chance and then
will rival the famous deutzias in profusion of bloom, and afterwards
remains a sturdy tree-like shrub, with dark-green foliage that is always
attractive. This, too, blooms before the foliage is developed, and hints
of spring as surely as the robin’s song. A larger but no less handsome
bush is the white flowering thorn (_Cratægus crus-galli_), and there are
wild spireas that should not be overlooked, and two white flowering
shrubs that delight all who see them in bloom, the deer-berry
(_Vaccinium stamineum_), and the “false-teeth” (_Leucothoe racemosa_).
All these are spring flowers. And now a word about an August bloomer,
the sweet pepper-bush (_Clethra alnifolia_). This is easily grown and is
a charming plant.

It happens, too, that a place can be found for a hardy climber, and as
beautiful as the coral honeysuckles of our grandmother’s days is the
climbing bittersweet (_Celastrus scandens_). The plant itself is
attractive. Its vigorous growth soon covers the support provided for it,
and in autumn and throughout the winter its golden and crimson fruit
hangs in thick-set clusters upon every branch.

Considering how frequently near the house there are unsightly objects,
and how depressing it is to be forever looking upon ugliness, it is
strange that the abundant means for beautifying waste places are so
persistently neglected. With one or more of the plants I have named, an
eyesore may be changed to a source of pleasure, and it was Beecher, I
think, who said, “A piece of color is as useful as a piece of bread.” He
never spoke more truly.

And what of the old-time arbors, with the straggling grape-vine, and
perhaps a rude wren-box perched at the entrance? Is there better shade
than the grape-vine offers, a sweeter odor than its bloom affords, or
more charming music than the song of the restless house-wren? Certainly
there have been no improvements upon these features of the old-time
garden: yet how seldom do we see them now! We must travel far, too, to
find a martin-box. As a matter of fact, the bluebird, wren, and martin
might, if we chose, be restored to the very hearts of our largest towns.
People have no more terror for them than for the English sparrow, and
they can all hold out against these piratical aliens, if we would
consider their few and simple needs. The wrens need but nesting-boxes
with an entrance through which the shoulders of a sparrow cannot pass;
and the bluebirds and martins require only that their houses be closed
during the winter and very early spring, or until they have returned
from their winter-quarters. This is easily done, and when the birds are
ready to occupy the accommodations provided for them they will take
possession and successfully hold the forts against all intruders. This
is not a fancy merely, suggested as the basis of experimentation, but is
the result of the experience of several people in widely-separated
localities. I vividly recall visiting at a house in a large town, where
purple martins for more than fifty years had occupied boxes placed upon
the eaves of a one-story kitchen.

While stress is laid upon the importance of regaining the presence in
town of these birds, it must not be supposed that they are all that are
available. There are scores of wild birds, known only to the
ornithologist, that can be “cultivated” as readily as the wild shrubbery
that under startling names figures in many a florist’s catalogue. Give
them a foothold, and they will come to stay. Orioles, thrushes, vireos,
fly-catchers, are not unreasonably afraid of man, and would quickly
acquire confidence if they were warranted in so doing. How long would a
scarlet tanager or a cardinal grosbeak remain unmolested if it appeared
in any city street? Here is the whole matter in a nutshell: the birds
are not averse to coming, but the people will not let them. This is the
more strange, when we remember that hundreds of dollars were spent to
accommodate the pestiferous imported sparrow, that is and always must be
a positive curse. Hundreds for sparrows, and not one cent for a
bluebird! While the mischief can never be undone, it can be held in
check, if we will but take the trouble, and this is a mere matter of
town-garden rearrangement; and why, indeed, not treat our ears to music
as well as our eyes to color and our palates to sweetness? Plant here
and there a bush that will yield you a crop of birds. That this may not
be thought merely a whim of my own, let me quote from the weather record
of Dr. John Conrad, who for forty years was the apothecary of the
Pennsylvania Hospital, in Philadelphia. This institution, bear in mind,
is in the heart of the city, not in its outskirts. Under date of March
23, 1862, he records, “Crocus and snow-drop came into bloom last week
and are now fully out.” Again, he says, “Orioles arrived on April 8,
after the fruit-trees burst into bloom.” Here we have a migratory bird
in the city three weeks earlier than its usual appearance in the
country, but I do not think the doctor was mistaken. I have positive
knowledge of the fact that he was a good local ornithologist. Under date
of June, 1866, Conrad writes, “A very pleasant June. Fine bright
weather, and only one week too warm for comfort. The roses bloomed well
(except the moss-rose) and for the most part opened better than usual.
The garden full of birds, and insects less abundant than usual. Many
blackbirds reared their young in our trees, and as many as sixteen or
twenty have been counted on the lawn at one time. Cat-birds, orioles,
thrushes, wrens, vireos, robins, etc., abound and make our old hospital
joyous with their sweet songs.”

During the summer of 1892 I was twice in the hospital grounds, with
which I was very familiar during my uncle’s—Dr. Conrad’s—lifetime, and I
heard only English sparrows, although I saw two or three native birds.
It was a sad change. Think of being able to speak of your garden as
“full of birds,”—as “joyous with their sweet songs.” This, not long ago,
could truthfully be done. Will it ever be possible to do so again?




               CHAPTER                          ELEVENTH

                           _AN INDIAN TRAIL_


It was a strange coincidence. A farmer living near by employed an Indian
from the school at Carlisle, and now that the work of the summer was
over, this taciturn youth walked daily over a hill to a school-house
more than a mile away, and the path leading to it was an Indian trail.

Not long since I met the lad on this very path returning from school,
and when he passed I stood by an old oak and watched him until lost
among the trees, walking where centuries ago his people had walked when
going from the mountain village and rock shelters along an inland creek
to the distant town by the river.

As you looked about from the old oak there was no public road or house
in sight; nothing but trees and bushes, huge rocks, and one curious
jutting ledge that tradition holds is a veritable relic of prehistoric
time,—a place where council fires were lit and midnight meetings held.

Whether tradition is true or not, the place was a fitting one whereat to
tarry and fall a-thinking. Happy, indeed, could the old oak have spoken.

Many a public road of recent date has been built on the line of an old
trail, as many a town and even city have replaced Indian villages; but
take the long-settled regions generally, the ancient landmarks are all
gone, and a stray potsherd or flint arrow-point in the fields is all
that is left to recall the days of the dusky aborigines.

Only in the rough, rocky, irreclaimable hills are we likely now to be
successful, if such traces as a trail are sought for.

It was so here. Bald-top Hill is of little use to the white man except
for the firewood that grows upon its sides and the scattered game that
still linger in its thickets. As seen from the nearest road, not far
off, there is nothing now to suggest that an Indian ever clambered about
it. The undergrowth hides every trace of the surface; but after the
leaves drop and a light snow has fallen, a curious white line can be
traced from the base of the summit; this is the old trail.

It is a narrow path, but for so long a time had it been used by the
Indians that, when once pointed out, it can still be followed without
difficulty. It leads now from one little intervale to another: from
farmer A to farmer B; but originally it was part of their long highway
leading from Philadelphia to Easton, perhaps. It matters not. Enough to
know that then, as now, there were towns almost wherever there was land
fit for dwellings, and paths that led from one to the other. It is clear
that the Indians knew the whole country well. The routes they finally
chose resulted from long experience, and were as direct as the nature of
the ground made possible.

The study of trails opens up to us a broader view of ancient Indian life
than we are apt to entertain.

We find the sites of villages on the banks of the rivers and larger
inflowing streams; travel by canoes was universal. No locality was so
favorable as the open valley, and here the greater number of Indians
doubtless dwelt. But the river and its fertile shores could not yield
all that this people needed: they had to draw from the resources of the
hills behind them. They soon marked the whole region with a net-work of
trails leading to the various points whence they drew the necessities of
life. The conditions of the present day are laid down on essentially the
same lines as then.

An Indian town was not a temporary tent site, or mere cluster of
wigwams, here to-day and miles away to-morrow; nor did these people
depend solely upon the chase. Beside the trail over which I recently
passed was a great clearing that had been an orchard. We can yet find
many a barren spot that is rightly known to the people of to-day as an
Indian field. So persistently were their cornfields cropped that at last
the soil was absolutely exhausted, and has not yet recovered its
fertility.

There was systematic bartering, too, as the red pipe-stone or catlinite
from Minnesota and obsidian from the more distant Northwest, found on
the Atlantic coast, as well as ocean shells picked up in the far
interior, all testify. There was also periodical journeying in autumn
from inland to the sea-coast to gather supplies of oysters, clams, and
other “sea food,” which were dried by smoking and then “strung as beads
and carried as great coils of rope” back to the hills to be consumed
during the winter.

Many small colonies, too, passed the winters on the coast in the shelter
of the great pine forests that extended to the very ocean beach. It was
no hap-hazard threading of a wilderness to reach these distant points.
The paths were well defined, well used. For how long we can only
conjecture, but the vast accumulations of shells on the coast, often now
beneath the water, point to a time so distant that the country wore a
different aspect from what it now does; a time when the land rose far
higher above the tide and extended seaward where now the ocean rolls
resistlessly.

Returning inland, let us trace another of these old-time paths from the
river-shore whereon the Indians had long dwelt, over hill and dale until
we reach a valley hemmed in by low, rolling hills.

It is a pretty spot still, although marred by the white man’s work; but
why was it the goal of many a weary journey?

Here is found the coveted jasper, varied in hue as autumn leaves or a
summer sunset. The quick eye of some wandering hunter, it may be, found
a chance fragment, and, looking closer, saw that the ground on which he
stood was filled with it; or a freshet may have washed the soil from an
outcropping of the mineral. Who can tell? It must suffice to know that
the discovery was made in time, and a new industry arose. No other
material so admirably met the Indian’s need for arrow-points, for the
blades of spears, for knives, drills, scrapers, and the whole range of
tools and weapons in daily use.

So it came that mining camps were established. To this day, in these
lonely hills, we can trace out the great pits the Indians dug, find the
tools with which they toiled, and even the ashes of their camp-fires,
where they slept by night. So deeply did the Indian work the land
wheresoever he toiled that even the paths that led from the mines to the
distant village have not been wholly blotted out.

The story of the jasper mines has yet to be told, and it may be long
before the full details are learned concerning the various processes
through which the mineral passed before it came into use as a finished
product. Much vain speculation has been indulged in; the fancied method
of reducing a thick blade to a thin one has been elaborately described,
although never carried out by any human being; in short, the impossible
has been boldly asserted as a fact beyond question.

The Indian’s history can be read but in small part from the handiwork
that he has left behind.

One phase of it, in the valley of the Delaware, is more clearly told
than all else,—the advance from a primitive to a more cultured status.
There were centuries during which jasper was known only as
river-pebbles, and its discovery in abundance had an influence upon
Indians akin to that upon Europe’s stone-age people when they discovered
the use of metals. At least here in the valley of the Delaware this is
true.

It is vain to ask for the beginning of man’s career in this region; what
we find but hints at it. But he came when there were no trails over the
hills, no path but the icy river’s edge; only as the centuries rolled by
was the country developed to the extent of knowing every nook and corner
of the land, and highways and by-ways became common, like the roads that
now reach out in every direction.

A “trail,” then, has a wealth of meaning, and those who made it were no
“mere savages,” as we so glibly speak of the Indians, thanks to the
average school-books.

The haughty Delawares had fields and orchards; they had permanent towns;
they mined such minerals as were valuable to them; they had weapons of
many patterns; they were jewellers in a crude way, and finished many a
stone ornament in a manner that still excites admiration. They were
travellers and tradesmen as well as hunters and warriors.

Although my day’s search for relics of these people had yielded but a
few arrow-points, potsherds, and a stone axe, when I saw the Indian on
his way from school, walking in the very path his people had made long
centuries ago, the story of their ancient sojourn here came vividly to
mind in the dim light of an autumn afternoon, when a golden mist wrapped
the hills and veiled the valleys beyond, and I had a glimpse of
pre-Columbian America.




                CHAPTER                          TWELFTH

                           ._A PRE-COLUMBIAN
                                DINNER_


A ponderous geologist, with weighty tread and weightier manner, brought
his foot down upon the unoffending sod and declared, “These meadows are
sinking at a rapid rate; something over two feet a century.” We all knew
it, but Sir Oracle had spoken, and we little dogs did not dare to bark.

Not long after I returned alone to these ill-fated meadows and began a
leisurely, all-day ramble. They were very beautiful. There was a wealth
of purple and of white boneset and iron-weed of royal dye. Sunflower and
primrose gilded the hidden brooks, and every knoll was banked with
rose-pink centaury. Nor was this all. Feathery reeds towered above the
marsh, and every pond was empurpled with pontederia and starred with
lilies. Afar off, acres of nut-brown sedge made fitting background for
those meadow tracts that were still green, while close at hand, more
beautiful than all, were struggling growths held down by the
golden-dodder’s net that overspread them.

It does not need trees or rank shrubbery to make a wilderness. This
low-lying tract to-day, with but a summer’s growth above it, is as wild
and lonely as are the Western plains. Lonely, that is, as man thinks,
but not forsaken. The wily mink, the pert weasel, the musk-rat, and the
meadow-mouse ramble in safety through it. The great blue heron, its
stately cousin, the snowy egret, and the dainty least bittern find it a
congenial home.

The fiery dragon-fly darts and lazy butterflies drift across the
blooming waste; bees buzz angrily as you approach; basking snakes bid
you defiance. Verily, this is wild life’s domain and man is out of
place.

It was not always so. The land is sinking, and what now of that older
time when it was far above its present level,—a high, dry, upland tract,
along which flowed a clear and rapid stream? The tell-tale arrow-point
is our guide, and wherever the sod is broken we have an inkling of
Indian history. The soil, as we dig a little deeper, is almost black
with charcoal—dust, and it is evident that centuries ago the Indians
were content to dwell here, and well they might be. Even in colonial
days the place had merit, and escaped not the eager eyes of Penn’s
grasping followers. It was meadow then, and not fitted for his house,
but the white man built his barn above the ruins of his dusky
predecessor’s home. All trace of human habitation is now gone, but the
words of the geologist kept ringing in my ears, and of late I have been
digging. It is a little strange that so few traces of the white man are
found as compared with relics of the Indian. From the barn that once
stood here and was long ago destroyed by a flood one might expect to
find at least a rusty nail.

The ground held nothing telling of a recent past, but was eloquent of
the long ago. Dull indeed must be the imagination that cannot recall
what has been here brought to light by the aid of such an implement as
the spade. Not only were the bow and spear proved to be the common
weapons of the time, but there were in even greater abundance, and of
many patterns, knives to flay the game. It is not enough to merely
glance at a trimmed flake of flint or carefully-chipped splinter of
argillite, and say to yourself, “A knife.” Their great variety has a
significance that should not be overlooked. The same implement could not
be put to every use for which a knife was needed; hence the range in
size from several inches to tiny flakes that will likely remain a puzzle
as to their purpose.

Besides home products, articles are found that have come from a long
distance, and no class of objects is more suggestive than those that
prove the widely-extended system of barter that prevailed at one time
among the Indians of North America. There are shells and shell ornaments
found in Wisconsin which must have been taken there from the shores of
the Gulf of Mexico; catlinite or red pipe-stone ornaments and pipes
found in New Jersey that could only have come from Minnesota. Shell
beads are often found in graves in the Mississippi Valley that were
brought from the Pacific coast, and the late Dr. Leidy has described a
shell bead, concerning which he states that it is the _Conus ternatus_,
a shell which belongs to the west coast of Central America. This was
found, with other Indian relics, in Hartman’s Cave, near Stroudsburg,
Pennsylvania. Two small arrow-points found in New Jersey a year or more
ago proved to be made of obsidian. These specimens could only have come
from the far South-west or from Oregon, and the probabilities are in
favor of the latter locality. It is not unlikely that objects like the
above should find their way inland to the Great Lakes, and so across the
continent and down the Atlantic coast. On the other hand, arrow-points
could have had so little intrinsic value in the eyes of an Indian that
we are naturally surprised that they should have been found so far from
their place of origin. Obsidian has occurred but very rarely east of the
Alleghanies, so far as I am aware. In the Sharples collection, at West
Chester, Pennsylvania, is a single specimen, reported to have been found
near that place, and a few traces have since been discovered in the
uplands immediately adjoining these Delaware meadows, and really there
is no reason to suppose that objects of value should not have passed
quite across the continent, or been carried from Mexico to Canada. There
were no vast areas absolutely uninhabited and across which no Indian
ever ventured.

It has been suggested that, as iron was manufactured in the valley of
the Delaware as early as 1728, the supposed obsidian arrow-points are
really made of slag from the furnaces, but a close examination of the
specimens proves, it is claimed, this not to have been the case, and at
this comparatively late date the making of stone arrow-points had
probably ceased. Just when, however, the use of the bow as a weapon was
discarded has not been determined, but fire-arms were certainly common
in 1728 and earlier.

A careful study, too, of copper implements, which are comparatively
rare, seems to point to the conclusion that very few were made of the
native copper found in New Jersey, Maryland, and elsewhere along the
Atlantic coast, but that they were made in the Lake Superior region and
thence gradually dispersed over the Eastern States. The large copper
spear from Betterton, Maryland, recently found, and another from New
Jersey, bear a striking resemblance to the spear-heads from the
North-west, where unquestionably the most expert of aboriginal
coppersmiths lived. Of course, the many small beads of this metal
occasionally found in Indian graves in the Delaware Valley might have
been made of copper found near by, but large masses are very seldom met
with.

Speaking of copper beads recalls the fact that a necklace comprising
more than one hundred was recently found on the site of an old Dutch
trader’s house, on an island in the Delaware. They were of Indian
manufacture, and had been in the fur trader’s possession, if we may
judge from the fact that they were found with hundreds of other relics
that betokened not merely European, but Dutch occupation of the spot.
This trader got into trouble and doubtless deserved his summary taking
off.

It is not “a most absurd untruth,” as was stated not long ago in the
_Critic_ in a review of a New York history, that the Indians were “a
people of taste and industry, and in morals quite the peers of their
Dutch neighbors.” They had just as keen a sense of right and wrong.
There never was a handful of colonists in North America whose whole
history their descendants would care to have known. The truth is, we
know very little of the Indian prior to European contact. Carpet-knight
archæologists and kid-gloved explorers crowd the pages of periodical
literature, it is true, but we are little, if any, the wiser.

It is supposed, and is even asserted, that the Indian knew nothing of
forks; but that he plunged his fingers into the boiling pot or held in
his bare hands the steaming joints of bear or venison is quite
improbable. Now, the archæologist talks glibly of bone awls whenever a
sharpened splinter of bone is presented him, as if such instruments were
only intended to perforate leather. They doubtless had other uses, and I
am sure that more than one split and sharpened bone which has been found
would have served excellently well as a one-tined fork wherewith to lift
from the pot a bit of meat. Whether or not such forks were in use, there
were wooden spoons, as a bit of the bowl and a mere splinter of the
handle serve to show. Kalm tells us that they used the laurel for making
this utensil, but I fancied my fragment was hickory. Potsherds
everywhere spoke of the Indians’ feasting, and it is now known that,
besides bowls and shallow dishes of ordinary sizes, they also had
vessels of several gallons’ capacity. All these are broken now, but,
happily, fragments of the same dish are often found together, and so we
can reconstruct them.

But what did the Indians eat? Quaint old Gabriel Thomas, writing about
1696, tells us that “they live chiefly on _Maze_ or _Indian Corn_ rosted
in the Ashes, sometimes beaten boyl’d with Water, called _Homine_. They
have cakes, not unpleasant; also Beans and Pease, which nourish much,
but the Woods and Rivers afford them their provision; they eat morning
and evening, their Seats and Tables on the ground.”

In a great measure this same story of The Indians’ food supply was told
by the scattered bits found mingled with the ashes of an ancient hearth.
Such fireplaces or cooking sites were simple in construction, but none
the less readily recognized as to their purpose. A few flat pebbles had
been brought from the bed of the river near by, and a small paved area
some two feet square was placed upon or very near the surface of the
ground. Upon this the fire was built, and in time a thick bed of ashes
accumulated. Just how they cooked can only be conjectured, but the
discovery of very thick clay vessels and great quantities of
fire-cracked quartzite pebbles leads to the conclusion that water was
brought to the boiling-point by heating the stones to a red heat and
dropping them into the vessel holding the water. Thomas, as we have
seen, says corn was “boyl’d with Water.” Meat also was, I think,
prepared in the same manner. Their pottery probably was poorly able to
stand this harsh treatment, which would explain the presence of such
vast quantities of fragments of clay vessels. Traces of vegetable food
are now very rarely found. A few burnt nuts, a grain or two of corn,
and, in one instance, what appeared to be a charred crab-apple, complete
the list of what, as yet, have been picked from the mingled earth and
ashes. This is not surprising, and what we know of vegetable food in use
among the Delaware Indians is almost wholly derived from those early
writers who were present at their feasts. Kalm mentions the roots of the
golden-club, arrow-leaf, and ground-nut, besides various berries and
nuts. It is well known that extensive orchards were planted by these
people. It may be added that, in all probability, the tubers of that
noble plant, the lotus, were used as food. Not about these meadows, but
elsewhere in New Jersey, this plant has been growing luxuriantly since
Indian times.

Turning now to the consideration of what animal food they consumed, one
can speak with absolute certainty. It is clear that the Delawares were
meat-eaters. It needs but little digging on any village site to prove
this, and from a single fireplace deep down in the stiff soil of this
sinking meadow have been taken bones of the elk, deer, bear, beaver,
raccoon, musk-rat, and gray squirrel. Of these, the remains of deer were
largely in excess, and as this holds good of every village site I have
examined, doubtless the Indians depended more largely upon this animal
than upon all the others. Of the list, only the elk is extinct in the
Delaware Valley, and it was probably rare even at the time of the
European settlement of the country, except in the mountain regions. If
individual tastes varied as they do among us, we have certainly
sufficient variety here to have met every fancy.

With a food supply as varied as this, an ordinary meal or an
extraordinary feast can readily be recalled, so far as its essential
features are concerned. It is now September, and, save where the ground
has been ruthlessly uptorn, everywhere is a wealth of early autumn
bloom. A soothing quiet rests upon the scene, bidding us to
retrospective thought. Not a bit of stone, of pottery, or of burned and
blackened fragment of bone but stands out in the mellow sunshine as the
feature of a long-forgotten feast. As I dreamily gaze upon the
gatherings of half a day, I seem to see the ancient folk that once dwelt
in this neglected spot; seem to be a guest at a pre-Columbian dinner in
New Jersey.




              CHAPTER                          THIRTEENTH

                           _A DAY’S DIGGING_


As long ago as November, 1679, two Dutchmen, Jasper Dankers and Peter
Sluyter, worked their way laboriously across New Jersey from Manhattan
Island, and reached South River, as the Delaware was then called, at
least by the Hollanders. They were all agog to see the falls at the head
of tide-water, and spent a miserable night in a rickety shanty, which
was cold as Greenland, except in the fireplace, and there they roasted.
All this was not calculated to put them in excellent humor, and so the
next day, when they stood on the river-bank and saw only a trivial rapid
where they had expected a second Niagara, their disgust knew no bounds.
These travel-tired Dutchmen quickly departed, rowing a small boat
down-stream, and growling whenever the tide turned and they had to row
against it.

When they reached Burlington, they recorded of an island nearly in front
of the village, that it “formerly belonged to the Dutch Governor, who
had made it a pleasure ground or garden, built good houses upon it, and
sowed and planted it. He also dyked and cultivated a large piece of
meadow or marsh.” The English held it at the time of their visit, and it
was occupied by “some Quakers,” as the authors quoted called them.

One of these Dutch houses, built in part of yellow bricks, and with a
red tiled roof, I found traces of years ago, and ever since have been
poking about the spot, for the very excellent reasons that it is a
pretty one, a secluded one, and as full of natural history attractions
now as it was of human interest when a Dutch beer-garden.

Had no one who saw the place in its palmy days left a record concerning
the beer, I could, at this late day, have given testimony that if there
was no beer, there were beer mugs, and schnapps bottles, and
wineglasses, for I have been digging again and found them all; and then
the pipes and pipe-stems! I have a pile of over five hundred. The Dutch
travellers were correct as to the place having been a pleasure-garden.
It certainly was, and probably the very first on the Delaware River. But
there was “pleasure,” too, on the main shore, for the men who referred
to the island stayed one night in Burlington, and, the next day being
Sunday, attended Quaker meeting, and wrote afterwards, “What they
uttered was mostly in one tone and the same thing, and so it continued
until we were tired out and went away.” Doubtless they were prejudiced,
and so nothing suited them, not even what they found to drink, for they
said, “We tasted here, for the first time, peach brandy or spirits,
which was very good, but would have been better if more carefully made.”
They did not like the English, evidently, for the next day they went to
Takanij (Tacony), a village of Swedes and Finns, and there drank their
fill of “very good beer” brewed by these people, and expressed
themselves as much pleased to find that, because they had come to a new
country, they had not left behind them their old customs.

The house that once stood where now is but a reach of abandoned and
wasting meadow was erected in 1668 or possibly a little earlier. Its
nearest neighbor was across a narrow creek, and a portion of the old
building is said to be still standing. Armed with the few facts that are
on record, it is easy to picture the place as it was in the days of the
Dutch, and it was vastly prettier then than it is now. The public of
to-day are not interested in a useless marsh, particularly when there is
better ground about it in abundance, and whoever wanders to such uncanny
places is quite sure to be left severely alone. This was my experience,
and, being undisturbed, I enjoyed the more my resurrective work. I could
enthuse, without being laughed at, over what to others was but
meaningless rubbish, and I found very much that, to me, possessed
greater interest than usual, because of a mingling of late Indian and
early European objects. With a handful of glass, porcelain, and amber
beads were more than one hundred of copper; the former from Venice, the
latter the handiwork of a Delaware Indian. With a white clay pipe, made
in Holland in the seventeenth century, was found a rude brown clay one,
made here in the river valley. Mingled with fragments of blue and white
Delft plates, bowls, and platters, were sundried mud dishes made by
women hereabouts during, who can say how many centuries? How completely
history and pre-history here overlapped! We know pretty much everything
about Dutchmen, but how much do we really know of the native American?
After nearly thirty years’ digging, he has been traced from the days of
the great glaciers to the beginnings of American history; but we cannot
say how long a time that comprises. The winter of 1892-1893 was, so far
as appearances went, a return to glacial times. Ice was piled up fifty
feet in height, and the water turned from the old channel of the river.
The cutting of another one opened up new territory for the relic hunter
when the ice was gone and the stream had returned to its old bed. Many
an Indian wigwam site that had been covered deep with soil was again
warmed by the springtide sun, and those were rare days when, from the
ashes of forgotten camps, I raked the broken weapons and rude dishes
that the red men had discarded. It was reading history at first hands,
without other commentary than your own. The ice-scored gravel-beds told
even an older story; but no one day’s digging was so full of meaning, or
brought me so closely in touch with the past, as when I uncovered what
remained of the old Dutch trader’s house; traced the boundaries of the
one-time pleasure-garden, hearing in the songs of birds the clinking of
glasses, and then, in fancy, adding to the now deserted landscape the
fur-laden canoes of the Indians who once gathered here to exchange for
the coveted gaudy beads the skins of the many animals which at that time
roamed the forests.




              CHAPTER                          FOURTEENTH

                               _DRIFTING_


Make an early start if you wish an eventful outing. Why know the world
only when the day is middle-aged or old? A wise German has said, “The
morning hour has gold in its mouth.” For many a rod after leaving the
wharf the river still “smoked,” and the scanty glimpses between the
rolling clouds of mist spurred the imagination. There was nothing
certain beyond the gunwales. The pale-yellow color of the water near at
hand and the deep-green and even black of that in the distance had no
daytime suggestiveness. It was not yet the familiar river with its
noonday glitter of blue and silver.

It is not strange that the initial adventure to which the
above-mentioned conditions naturally gave rise occurred while this state
of uncertainty continued. Very soon I ran upon a snag. To strike such an
object in mid-river was rather startling. Was I not in or near the
channel? Steamboats come puffing and plowing here and sailing craft pass
up and down, so my only care had been to avoid them; but now there came
in my path the twisted trunk of an old forest tree and held me fast. All
the while the mist rose and fell, giving no inkling of my whereabouts.
In the dim, misty light what a strange sea-monster this resurrected
tree-trunk seemed to be! Its thick green coat of silky threads lay
closely as the shining fur of the otter, a mane of eel-grass floated on
the water, the gnarly growths where branches once had been glistened as
huge eyes, and broken limbs were horns that threatened quick
destruction. There was motion, too. Slowly it rose above the water and
then as slowly sunk from view. Could it be possible that some
long-necked saurian of the Jersey marls had come to life? Nonsense; and
yet so real did it seem that I was ready for the river-horse to rise

                          “from the waves beneath,
            And grin through the grate of his spiky teeth.”

With such an uncanny keeper, I was held a prisoner. At last I struck it
with an oar to beat it back, and rocked the frail boat until I feared
plunging into the deep water and deeper mud beneath. Deep water? It
suddenly occurred to me to try its depth, and the truth was plain. I was
far from the channel, and might with safety have waded to the shore. As
usual, I had rashly jumped at conclusions. The mouth of an inflowing
creek was near at hand, and this sunken tree, a relic of some forgotten
freshet, had been lying here in the mud for several years. The tide
lifted and let fall the trunk, but the root-mass was still strongly
embedded. I knew the spot of old, and now, fearing nothing, was rational
again.

Such sunken trees, however, are well calculated to alarm the unthinking.
It is said of one yet lying in the mud of Crosswicks Creek, that it rose
so quickly once as to overturn a boat. This is not improbable. That
occurrence, if true, happened a century ago, and the same tree has since
badly frightened more than one old farmer. I am told this of one of them
who had anchored his boat here one frosty October morning and commenced
fishing. While half asleep, or but half sober, the tree slowly raised up
and tilted the boat so that its occupant felt compelled to swim. His
view of the offending monster was much like my own fevered vision of
to-day. He not only swam ashore, but ran a mile over a soft marsh. To
him the _sea_-serpent was a reality, although he saw it in the _creek_.

It is of interest to note that among the early settlers of this region,
for at least three generations, the impression was prevalent that there
might be some monster lurking in the deep holes of the creek or in the
river. The last of the old hunters and fishermen of this region, who had
spent all his life in a boat or prowling along shore, was ever talking
of a “king tortle” that for forty years had defied all his efforts to
capture it. “Mostly, it only shows its top shell, but I have seen it
fair and square, head and legs, and I don’t know as I care to get very
close, neither.” This was his unvaried remark whenever I broached the
subject. To have suggested that it was a sunken log, or in some other
way tried to explain the matter, would only have brought about his ill
will. I once attempted it, very cautiously, but he effectually shut me
up by remarking, “When this here creek runs dry and you can walk over
its bottom, you’ll larn a thing or two that ain’t down in your books
yet, and ain’t goin’ to be.” The old man was right. I do not believe in
“king tortles,” but there certainly is “a thing or two” not yet in the
books. Stay! How big do our snappers grow? Is the father of them all
still hiding in the channel of Crosswicks Creek?

A description in an old manuscript journal, of the general aspect of the
country as seen from the river, bears upon this subject of strange wild
beasts and monsters of the deep, as well as on that of sunken trees that
endangered passing shallops.

“As we pass up the river,” this observant writer records, "we are so
shut in by the great trees that grow even to the edge of the water, that
what may lye in the interior is not to be known. That there be fertile
land, the Indians tell us, but their narrow paths are toilsome to travel
and there are none [of these people] now that seem willing to guide us.
As we approached ffarnsworth’s the channel was often very close to the
shore, and at one time we were held by the great trees that overhung the
bank and by one that had been fallen a long time and was now lodged in
the water. As I looked towards the shore, I exclaimed, ‘Here we are
indeed in a great wilderness. What strangeness is concealed in this
boundless wood? what wonder may at any time issue from it, or fierce
monster not be lurking in the waters beneath us?’ Through the day the
cries of both birds and beasts were heard, but not always. It was often
so strangely quiet that we were more affected thereby than by the sounds
that at times issued forth. At night there was great howling, as we were
told, of wolves, and the hooting of owls, and often there plunged into
the stream wild stags that swam near to our boat. But greater than all
else, to our discomfort, were the great sunken trunks of trees that were
across the channel, where the water was of no great depth."

What a change! and would that this old traveller could revisit the
Delaware to-day. My boat is free again and the mists are gone. Through
the trees are sifted the level sunbeams. There is at least a chance now
to compare notes. The forest is now a field, the trackless marsh a
meadow; wild life is largely a thing of the past; silence, both day and
night, replaces sound. No, not that; but only the minor sounds are left.
There are still the cry of the fish-hawk and the sweet song of the
thrush. No stags now swim the river, but there remain the mink and the
musk-rat. It has not been long since I saw a migration of meadow-mice,
and at night, I am sure, many an animal dares to breast the stream, a
mile wide though it be. Too cunning to expose itself by day, it risks
its life at night; and how tragic the result when, nearly at the
journey’s end, it is seized by a lurking foe; dragged down, it may be,
by a snake or a turtle!

The world is just as full of tragedy as ever, and, let us hope, as full
of comedy. In a bit of yonder marsh, above which bends the tall wild
rice, there is daily enacted scene after scene as full of import as
those which caused the very forest to tremble when the wolf and panther
quarrelled over the elk or deer that had fallen.

It has been insisted upon that a goal-less journey is necessarily a
waste of time. If on foot, we must keep forever on the go; if in a boat,
we must keep bending to the oars. It is this miserable fallacy that
makes so many an out-door man and woman lose more than half of that for
which they went into the fields. Who cares if you did see a chippy at
every turn and flushed a bittern at the edge of the marsh? If you had
been there before them, and these birds did the walking, you would have
gone home the wiser. It is not the mere fact that there are birds that
concerns us, but what are they doing? why are they doing it? This the
town-pent people are ever anxious to know, and the facts cannot be
gathered if you are forever on the move. Suppose I rush across the river
and back, what have I seen? The bottom of the boat. I came to see the
river and the sky above, and if this is of no interest to the reader,
let him turn the leaf.

Does every storm follow the track of the sun? As the sun rose there were
clouds in the east and south and a haziness over the western sky. Had I
asked a farmer as to the weather probabilities, he would have looked
everywhere but due north. Why does he always ignore that quarter? There
may be great banks of cloud there, but they go for nothing. “Sou-east”
and “sou-west” are forever rung in your ears, but never a word of the
north. Sometimes I have thought it may be for this reason that about
half the time the farmer is all wrong, and the heaviest rains come when
he is most sure that the day will be clear.

Looking upward, for the sky was clear in that direction now, I saw that
there were birds so far above me that they appeared as mere specks. Very
black when first seen, but occasionally they flashed as stars seen by
day from the bottom of a well. They could not be followed, except one
that swept swiftly earthward, and the spreading tail and curve of wings
told me it was a fish-hawk. What a glorious outlook from its
ever-changing point of view! From its height, it could have seen the
mountains and the ocean, and the long reach of river valley as well. If
the mists obscure it all, why should a bird linger in the upper air? The
prosy matter of food-getting has nothing to do with it. While in camp on
Chesapeake Bay, I noticed that the fish-hawks were not always fishing,
and often the air rang with their strange cries while soaring so far
overhead as to be plainly seen only with a field-glass. Every movement
suggested freedom from care as they romped in the fields of space. It is
not strange that they scream, or laugh, shall we say? when speeding
along at such rate and in no danger of collision. If I mistake not, the
cry of exultation is coincident with the downward swoop, and I thought
of old-time yelling when dashing down a snow-clad hill-side; but how
sober was the work of dragging the sled up-hill! The hawks, I thought,
were silent when upward bound. If so, there is something akin to
humanity in the hawk nature.

I have called the cry of the fish-hawk a “laugh,” but, from a human
stand-point, do birds laugh? It is extremely doubtful, though I recall a
pet sparrow-hawk that was given to playing tricks, as I called them, and
the whole family believed that this bird actually laughed. Muggins, as
we named him, had a fancy for pouncing upon the top of my head and,
leaning forward, snapping his beak in my face. Once an old uncle came
into the room and was treated in this fashion. Never having seen the
bird before, he was greatly astonished, and indignant beyond measure
when the hawk, being rudely brushed off, carried away his wig. Now the
bird was no less astonished than the man, and when he saw the wig
dangling from his claws he gave a loud cackle, unlike anything we had
ever heard before, and which was, I imagine, more an expression of
amusement than of surprise. I think this, because afterwards I often
played the game of wig with him, to the bird’s delight, and he always
“laughed” as he carried off the prize. On the contrary, the unsuccessful
attempt to remove natural hair elicited no such expression, but
sometimes a squeal of disgust.

In the _Spectator_ of October 1, 1892, page 444, I find a most
thoughtful article, entitled “The Animal Sense of Humor,” and I quote as
follows: “The power of laughter is peculiar to man, and the sense of
humor may be said, generally speaking, to be also his special property.”
Again, “We never saw the slightest approach to amusement in one animal
at the mistakes of another, though dogs, so far as we can venture to
interpret their thoughts, do really feel amusement at the mistakes of
men.” Possibly the author is right, but do not cats show a sense of
humor at the rough-and-tumble gambols of their kittens? Is not the sly
cuff on the ear that sends a kitten sprawling indicative of a sense of
fun on the part of tabby? Our author says, “so far as we can venture to
interpret their thoughts.” "Ay, there’s the rub." No one can tell how
far it is safe to venture, but I go a great deal beyond my neighbors.
Our author concludes, “In animals, as in man, humor is the result of
civilization, and not as we understand it, a natural and spontaneous
development.” I cannot subscribe to this. I know little of domestic
animals, but have got the idea of an animal’s sense of humor from wild
life, and confirmed it by what I have seen of cats and dogs.

While I have been drifting, and using my eyes and ears instead of legs
and arms, as is advocated, the clouds, too, have been creeping this way,
and, while the morning is yet fresh, it is certainly going to rain. Had
I consulted the barometer, I would have known this; but then, knowing
it, might I not have stayed at home? Why not enjoy part of a day? That
the rain will soon be here does not diminish one’s pleasure, unless
there is a fear of getting wet, and this is all too common. I hope that
it does not mean that you have but one suit of clothes.

The approaching rain, the increasing cloudiness, the shut-in appearance,
made the river exceedingly attractive. With the down-dropping clouds
dropped down the birds, and the swallows now skimmed the water as they
had been skimming the sky. The fish-hawks departed, but a host of
land-birds crossed the stream, as if comparing the shelter afforded by
the cedars on one side and pines on the other. These birds chattered as
they flew by, and turned their heads up- and downstream, as if curious
as to all that might be going on. Suddenly the water ceased to be
rippled, and far down-stream a cloud appeared to have reached the river.
It was the rain. It seemed to march very slowly, and every drop made a
dimple on the river’s breast. Then I could hear the on-coming host, the
sound having a distinct bell-like tinkle as each drop touched the
surface and disappeared. A curious effect, too, was produced by the wind
or the varying density of the cloud above, in that the drops were very
near together where I happened to be, and much farther apart and larger
some distance beyond the boat. I could of course make no measurements,
but appearances suggested that in the middle of the river the drops were
less numerous in the proportion of one to five. Does it usually rain
harder over land than over water? Heretofore I had seen the rain upon
the river while on shore, and was now very glad to have been caught
adrift, so as to observe it from a new point of view. It was a beautiful
sight, well worth the thorough wetting that I got and which drove me
home soon after with pleasant thoughts of my goalless journey.

[Illustration: _The Camp-Fire_]




               CHAPTER                          FIFTEENTH

                              _FOOTPRINTS_


While the camp-fire was smoking, for the wood was green and I was
willing that my companion should worry over it, I strolled up the long,
sandy beach with no particular object in mind and quite ready to meet
and parley with any creature that I overtook. I saw only evidences of
what had been there, or what I supposed had been. There were tracks that
I took to be those of herons, and others that suggested a raccoon in
search of crayfish. Here and there a mouse had hurried by. What lively
times had been kept up at low tide within sight of the tent door! and
yet we knew nothing of it. But these tracks were not well defined, and
therefore why not misinterpreted? I have not suggested all the
possibilities of the case—— Here my meditations were checked by the call
to breakfast, but I took up the subject again as I walked alone in the
woods, for I was but the companion of a worker, not one myself.

It occurred to me that when we read of hunters, or perhaps have followed
a trapper in his rounds, we have been led to think that footprints are
animal autography that the initiated can read without hesitation. To
distinguish the track of a rabbit from that of a raccoon is readily
done, and we can go much further, and determine whether the animal was
walking or running, made a leap here or squatted there; but can we go to
any length, and decipher every impress an animal may have made in
passing over the sand or mud? I think not. I have seen a twig sent
spinning a long distance up the beach at low tide, making a line of
equidistant marks that were extremely life-like in appearance. A cloud
of dead leaves have so dotted an expanse of mud that a gunner insisted
there had been a flock of plover there a few moments before he arrived.
All depends, or very much does, on the condition of the surface marked.
If very soft and yielding, the plainest bird-tracks may be distorted,
and a mere dot, on the other hand, may have its outline so broken as to
appear as though made by a bird or mammal. Still, tracks are a safe
guide in the long run, and, whether our opinion as to them be correct or
not, the rambler finds something worth seeing, and he goes on anything
but a wild-goose chase who sometimes finds himself mistaken. It is well
to check our confidence occasionally and realize the limits of our
power.

Opportunity afforded while in camp, and I made a short study of
footprints. With a field-glass I noted many birds, and then going to the
spot, examined the impressions their feet had made. A night-heron did
not come down flatly upon its feet with outspread toes, and so the
tracks were quite different from the impressions made when the bird
walked. Crows, I noticed, both hopped and walked, and the marks were
very different, the former being broad and ill-defined in comparison
with the traces of the same bird’s stately tread. Had the bird not been
seen, any one would have supposed two creatures had been keeping close
company, or that some one individual had passed by in the very path of
another. The purple grakle and red-winged blackbird made tracks too much
alike to be distinguished, yet these birds have not the same size or
shape of foot. A water-snake came up over the mud and left a line of
marks upon the sand that could not be recognized as that of any animal,
except it might be a faint resemblance to the trail of a mussel. I
chased a dozen crayfish over a mud flat, and their backward and sidewise
leapings caused an old gunner to say there had been plover about. A
blue-winged teal made a long double line of dents in the sand before it
rose clear of the beach, and these were very like many a footprint I had
previously seen. What, then, must we think of the fossil footprints of
which so much has been written? As different species, a long series of
these impressions in the rock have been described and given
high-sounding titles. I am not entitled to an opinion, but have doubts,
nevertheless, of the wisdom of considering every slightly different form
as made by a different creature. I have given my reasons, and will only
add another instance, one of greater significance than all as bearing
upon the question. I startled a slumbering jumping-mouse last summer and
it bounded across the smooth sand bared by the outgoing tide. Its track
then was one made by its body rather than the extremities, and a curious
dent in the river-shore’s smooth surface it was; but before taking again
to the woods it walked in its peculiar way, and the little footprints
were quite distinct and unmistakably those of a small mammal. Had the
two sets of markings been preserved in a slab of sandstone, no
ichnologist would have recognized the truth, but probably would have
said, “Here is a case where some leaping creature has overtaken a small
rodent and devoured it.”

Difficult as fossil footprints may be to decipher, they call up with
wonderful distinctness the long ago of other geologic ages. It is hard
to realize that the stone of which our houses are built once formed the
tide-washed shore of a primeval river or the bed of a lake or ocean gone
long before man came upon the scene.

But the footprints of to-day concern me more. Looking over the side of
the boat, I saw several mussels moving slowly along and making a deep,
crooked groove in the ripple-marked sand, “streaking the ground with
sinuous trace,” as Milton puts it; and the school of blunt-headed
minnows made little dents in the sand wherever the water was shallow,
when they turned suddenly and darted off-shore. This sand seemed very
unstable, and a little agitation of the water caused many a mark to be
wiped out; and yet we find great slabs of ripple-marked and foot-marked
sandstone. I picked up such a piece not long ago on which were rain-drop
marks. This is the story of a million years ago; but who ever found
Indian moccasin-marks not two centuries old? The footprints that could
tell us many a wonderful story are all gone and the tale of a rain-drop
remains. This is a bit aggravating. Here where we have pitched our camp,
or very near it, was a Swedish village in 1650 and later, and for two
days I have been hunting for evidence of the fact,—some bit of broken
crockery, rusty nail, glass, pewter spoon, anything,—but in vain.
History records the village, and correctly, without a doubt, but there
are no footprints here, nor other trace to show that a white man ever
saw the place until our tent was pitched upon the beach.

Towards evening I had occasion to renew my youth,—in other words, “run
on an errand,” as my mother put it,—and going half a mile through the
woods, I came to a narrow but well-worn path. This was so akin to my
footprint thoughts of the morning that I gladly followed it instead of
making a short cut. It was fortunate, for the path led directly to where
I wished to go, and our theoretical geography, as usual, was terribly
out of joint. As it was, on the edge of an old village I found a very
old man in a very old house. His memory as to the earlier half of the
century was excellent, and he gave me the desired information and more.
I spoke of the path through the woods, and he chuckled to himself.

“Through the woodses, eh? Well, when I made the path, goin’ and comin’
through the brush that wasn’t shoulder-high, there was no trees then.
That was more’n forty years ago.”

"No, John, ’twa’n’t," piped a weak voice from the interior of the little
cottage; “’twa’n’t mor’n——”

"Laws, man, don’t mind her. She disputes the almanac, and every winter
gets in New Year’s ahead of Christmas."

I did not stop to argue the matter, but hurried campward, glad that, if
I could find no footprints of human interest and historic, I at least
had followed a path made forty years ago,—a path that had been worn
among bushes and now led through a forest. It was indeed suggestive. By
the camp-fire that night I vowed to plant a forest where now there was
but a thicket, and in my dreams I walked through a noble wood.

Think how much might be done to beautify the world, and how little is
accomplished.


               CHAPTER                          SIXTEENTH

                              _FOOTPRINTS_


The great storm of yesterday cleared the air as well as cleaned the
beaches, and the river was fresh and sparkling as though the tempest had
added new life, so that the listless midsummery water was now as
champagne, “with beaded bubbles winking at the brim.” The air was heavy
with sweetness and with song, the fields and meadows painted as the
rose. The buckwheat was in bloom, and a million bees were humming. The
pasture was gay with pink gerardia, or reflected the summer sky where
the day-flower blossomed. There was no commingling of these late
flowers. Each had its own acre, exercised squatter sovereignty, and
allowed no trespassing. The only evidence of man’s interference, except
the buckwheat-field, was a dilapidated worm-fence, and this is one of
several instances where beauty increases hand in hand with decay. The
older such a fence, the better; when merely a support for Virginia
creeper or the rank trumpet-vine, it is worthy the rambler’s regard.
Wild life long ago learned what a safe snug-harbor such ruined fences
offer. It puzzles even a mink to thread their mazes, and the shy rabbit
that has its “form” in a brier-hidden hollow of the crooked line feels
that it is safe.

There are traces of these old fences of which no record remains, placed
perhaps by the very earliest settler in a tract that he had cleared and
which has since gone back to an almost primitive state. In an old
woodland I once traced a fence by the long line of cypripediums in
bloom, which were thriving in the mould of decayed fence-rails, a pretty
if not permanent monument to departed worth.

A word more of these old fences in winter. When the snow beats across
the field, it stops here and gracefully curves above it, arching the
rails and vines until all is hidden, unless it be some lonely projecting
stake, by which alone it communicates with the outside world. I rashly
attempted once to go across-lots over a new country, and made a
discovery. The snow-bound fence was but a drift, I thought, but it
proved to be far different. The thick mat of hardy growths had kept back
the snow, which was but a roof and did not wholly exclude the light. For
some distance I could dimly make out the various growths, and each
little cedar stood up as a sentinel. A loud word sounded and resounded
as if I had spoken in an empty room or shouted in a long tunnel. The
coldest day in the year could not inconvenience any creature that took
shelter here, and I found later that life, both furred and feathered,
knew the old fence far better than I did.

But this is the last day but one of August, and so nominally the end of
summer. Only nominally, for these flowery meadows and sweet-scented
fields contradict the almanac. This quiet nook in the Delaware meadows
offers no intimation of autumn until October, and late in the month at
that. The bees and buckwheat will see to this, or seem to, which is just
as much to the purpose. To-day along the old worm-fence are many
kingbirds, and, although mute, they are not moping. There is too much
insect life astir for that. With them are orioles and bluebirds, the
whole making a loose flock of perhaps a hundred birds. The bluebirds are
singing, but in a half-hearted, melancholy way, reminding me of an old
man who spent his time when over ninety in humming “Auld Lang Syne.”
Before the buckwheat has lost its freshness these birds will all be
gone, but at what time the bluebirds part company with the others I do
not know. They certainly do not regularly migrate, as do the others.
There was a colony of them that lived for years in and about my barn,
and one was as sure to see them in January as in June. No English
sparrows could have been more permanently fixed.

When the buckwheat is ripe and the fields and meadows are brown, there
will be other birds to take their place. Tree-sparrows from Canada and
white-throats from New England will make these same fields merry with
music, and the tangle about the old fence will ring with gladness. But
it is August still, and why anticipate? High overhead there are black
specks in the air, and we can mark their course, as they pass, by the
bell-like _chink-chink_ that comes floating earthward. It is one of the
sounds that recall the past rather than refer to the present. The
reed-bird of to-day was a bobolink last May. His roundelay that told
then of a long summer to come is now but a single note of regret that
the promised summer is a thing of the past. It is the Alpha and Omega of
the year’s song-tide. Not that we have no other songs when the reed-bird
has flown to the Carolina rice-fields. While I write, a song-sparrow is
reciting reminiscences of last May, and there will be ringing rounds of
bird-rejoicing from November to April. Still, the initial thought holds
good: bobolink in May, and only a reed-bird in August; the beginning and
the end; the herald of Summer’s birth and her chief mourner; Alpha and
Omega.

Where the brook that drains the meadow finds its way, the little
rail-birds have congregated. Many spent their summer along the
Musketaquid, where Thoreau spent his best days, but they bring no
message from New England. They very seldom speak above a whisper. Not so
the king-rail. He chatters as he threads the marsh and dodges the great
blue barrier that sweeps above the cat-tail grasses and has to be
content with a sparrow or a mouse.

These late August days are too often overfull, and one sees and hears
too much,—so very much that it is hard to give proper heed to any one of
the many sights and sounds. But how much harder to turn your back upon
it! All too soon the sun sinks into the golden clouds of the western
sky.

That was a happy day when the buckwheat was threshed in the field, on a
cool, clear, crisp October morning. The thumping of the Hails on the
temporary floor put the world in good humor. No bird within hearing but
sang to its time-keeping. Even the crows cawed more methodically, and
squirrels barked at the same instant that the flail sent a shower of
brown kernels dancing in the air. The quails came near, as if impatient
for the grains eyes less sharp than theirs would fail to find. It was
something at such a time to lie in the gathering heap of straw and join
in the work so far as to look on. That is a boy’s privilege which we
seldom are anxious to outgrow. A nooning at such a time meant a fire to
warm the dinner, and the scanty time allowed was none too short for the
threshers to indulge in weather prognostications. This is as much a
habit as eating, and to forego it would be as unnatural as to forego the
taking of food. As the threshers ate, they scanned the surroundings, and
not a tree, bush, or wilted weed but was held to bear evidence that the
coming winter would be “open” or “hard,” as the oldest man present saw
fit to predict. No one disputed him, and no one remembered a week later
what he had said, so the old man’s reputation was safe.

The buckwheat threshed, the rest is all a matter of plain prose. Stay!
In the coming Indian summer there was always a bee-hunt. The old man
whom we saw in the buckwheat-field in October was our dependence for
wild honey, which we fancied was better than that from the hives. He
always went alone, carrying a wooden pail and a long, slender oaken
staff. How he found the bee-trees so readily was a question much
discussed. “He smells it,” some one suggested; “He hears ’em a-buzzin’,”
others remarked. Knowing when he was going, I once followed on the sly
and solved the mystery. He went without hesitation or turning of the
head to a hollow beech, and straightway commenced operations. I did not
stay to witness this, but came away recalling many a Sunday afternoon’s
stroll with him in these same woods. What he had seen in August he had
remembered in December, and, wise man that he was, said nothing
meanwhile. Why, indeed, should he throw aside the opportunity to pose as
one having superior knowledge, when others were so persistent in
asserting it of him? There is that much vanity in all men.

But a year later his superior knowledge failed him. I had found the same
tree in my solitary rambles, and was there ahead of him. Still, I never
enjoyed my triumph. I felt very far from complimented when he remarked,
as an excuse for his failure, that “a skunk had been at the only
bee-tree in the woods. He saw signs of the varmint all about;” and when
he said this he looked directly at me, with his nose in the air.

It is winter now, and when in the early morning I find cakes and honey
upon the breakfast-table, excellent as they are in their way, they are
the better that they call up the wide landscape of those latter August
days and of frosty October, for I see less of the morning meal before me
than of bees and buckwheat.


              CHAPTER                          SEVENTEENTH

                             _DEAD LEAVES_




I have often wondered why the Indians did not call November the month of
dead leaves. The out-of-town world is full of them now. They replace the
daisies and dandelions in the open fields, the violets and azaleas in
the shady woods. They are a prominent feature of the village street.
Many will cling to the trees the winter long, but millions are scattered
over the ground. Even on the river I find them floating, borne slowly by
the tide or hurrying across the rippled surface, chased by the passing
breeze.

The pleasure—common to us all—we take in crushing them beneath our feet
savors of heartlessness. Why should we not recall their kindness when,
as bright-green leaves, each cast its mite of grateful shade, so dear to
the rambler, and now, when they have fallen, let them rest in peace? We
should not be ugly and revengeful merely because it is winter. There is
nothing to fret us in this change from shade to sunshine, from green
leaves to brown. The world is not dead because of it. While the sun
looks down upon the woods to-day there arises a sweet odor, pleasant as
the breath of roses. The world dead, indeed! What more vigorous and full
of life than the mosses covering the rich wood-mould? Before me, too,
lies a long-fallen tree cloaked in moss greener than the summer
pastures. Not the sea alone possesses transforming magic; there is also
“a _wood_-change into something rich and strange.” Never does the
thought of death and decay centre about such a sight. The chickadee
drops from the bushes above, looks the moss-clad log over carefully,
and, when again poised on an overhanging branch, loudly lisps its
praises. What if it is winter when you witness such things? One swallow
may not make a summer, but a single chickadee will draw the sting from
any winter morning.

I never sit by the clustered dead leaves and listen to their faint
rustling as the wind moves among them but I fancy they are whispering of
the days gone by. What of the vanished springtide, when they first
timidly looked forth? They greeted the returning birds, the whole merry
host of north-bound warblers, and what startling facts of the bird-world
they might reveal! There is no eye-witness equal to the leaf, and with
them lives and dies many a secret that even the most patient
ornithologist can never gain. How much they overhear of what the birds
are saying! to how much entrancing music they listen that falls not upon
men’s ears! What a view of the busy world above us has the fluttering
leaf that crowns the tall tree’s topmost twig! Whether in storm or
sunshine, veiled in clouds or beneath a starlit sky, whatsoever happens,
there is the on-looking leaf, a naturalist worth knowing could we but
learn its language.

A word here as to the individuality of living leaves. Few persons are so
blind as to have never noticed how leaves differ. Of every size and
shape and density, they have varied experiences, if not different
functions, and their effect upon the rambler in his wanderings is by no
means always the same. At high noon, when the midsummer sun strives to
parch the world, let the rambler stand first beneath an old oak and then
pass to the quivering aspen, or pause in the shade of a way-side locust
and then tarry beneath the cedar, at whose roots the sunshine never
comes. It needs but to do this to realize that there are leaves and
leaves: those that truly shelter and those that tease you by their
fitfulness.

It is winter now and the leaves are dead; but, although blighted, they
have not lost their beauty. Heaped in the by-paths of this ancient wood,
they are closely associated with the pranks of many birds, and for this
alone should be lovingly regarded. Even now I hear an overstaying
chewink—for this is a warm wood the winter long—tossing them in little
clouds about him as he searches for the abundant insects that vainly
seek shelter where they have fallen. The birds seem to seek fun as well
as food among the leaves. I have often watched them literally dive from
the overhanging bushes into a heap of leaves, and then with a flirt of
the wings send dozens flying into the air. It is hard to imagine any
other purpose than pure sport. When, as often happens, two or three
follow their leader, I always think of a string of boys diving or
playing leap-frog. “Coincidence,” cries old Prosy, with a wise shake of
his head. Perhaps; but I think old Prosy is a fool.

The strange, retiring winter wren is equally a lover of dead leaves. He
plays with them in a less boisterous manner, but none the less delights
in tossing them to and fro. It is at such a time that a few notes of his
marvellous summer song occasionally escape him. The white-throated
sparrows fairly dance among or upon the heaped-up leaves, and play
bo-peep with the clouds of them they send aloft; and in February the
foxie sparrows play the same pranks. Squirrels and mice are equally at
home, and abandon all prudence when they frolic among the windrows. The
more clatter and cackle, the better they are pleased. When freed from
the restraint of fear, wild life is fun-loving to the very brim.

Dead leaves are never deserted unless the weather is extremely cold or a
storm has prevailed until they are a sodden mat. Even from such a
wetting they soon recover and respond to the passing breeze’s gentlest
touch. Dead leaves are the matured fruit of summer, and what an
important part they really play as the year closes! They are not now of
the air, airy, but of the earth, earthy. Dead, it is true, yet living.
Passive, yet how active! They are whispering good cheer now to the
sleeping buds that await the coming of a new year, and faithfully guard
them when the storm rages. For such deeds we owe them our kindliest
thoughts.

In the golden sunshine of this dreamy day the leaves have yet another
visitor that makes merry with them. The little whirlwind, without a
herald, springs laughingly upon them, even when the profoundest quiet
reigns throughout the wood. Touched by this fairy’s wand, the leaves
rise in a whirling pillar and dance down the narrow path into some even
more secluded nook. Dead leaves, indeed! Never did the wildest madcap of
a courting bird play livelier pranks.

Time was when I would have searched the woods for winter-green and worn
it gayly. I am content to-day to carry a withered leaf.
